Unknown Speaker  0:00  
Alright, so

Unknown Speaker  0:03  
some stuff I've been tweeting about some stuff I've been thinking about, about how Bitcoin becomes essentially the flag of technology. It encodes the implicit values of the technology community explicitly. So let me explain first what I mean by by the flag, go through the valleys and talk about why I think this actually happens. So, um, you know, when I talk about a flag, you know, you guys have seen like, the, you know,

Unknown Speaker  0:25  
the coin mooning, you know, tech flags, and so

Unknown Speaker  0:27  
on. Essentially, the idea is that what I mean by technology first technology is culture that Silicon Valley built and exported. So of course, it's the unicorns and the apps and the products but more than that, it's a culture that gave rise to these things. You know, it's a books that you know, Paul Graham and, and Jessica Livingston, you know, the Ben Horowitz, Peter teal, that Britain, we have exported this culture worldwide that says how to and why to build and scale these globally competitive, you know, tech

Unknown Speaker  0:55  
companies.

Unknown Speaker  0:57  
And not all flags are geographical. Some of them represent movements. So to get some flag, you know, liberty, the pride flag. And in this sense, the big one flag represents values, not necessarily a geography per se, in a flag is something to align behind. So the thing about the tech community is, you know, these are folks who have, you know, strong opinions they have, they have their own companies, they have their own interests. But whether it's, you know, Dorsey of Twitter, Reed Hoffman of LinkedIn, Peter teal, of Facebook, Marc Andreessen, have a16z on,

Unknown Speaker  1:27  
you know, tilapia,

Unknown Speaker  1:28  
don't think that just Facebook, these folks who kind of have their own baronies and principalities are nevertheless aligned behind Bitcoin, because it's many people's first choice, and many people second choice, so it becomes the community's first choice. It's sort of a shelling point that everybody can agree on.

Unknown Speaker  1:45  
I'm

Unknown Speaker  1:46  
a useful person for this is Linux, so Linux, everybody can profit from it, but nobody can corrupt it. And thus, you know, Facebook and Google, even though they're big competitors, or many other different axes, they cooperate on Linux, because it's a demilitarized zone, one party cannot deprive the other of their contributions. So that gets to the concept of flag let's talk about the values of Bitcoin and technology are both international. And so here's the map of all the you know, tech unicorns, you know, from 2017 2019. It's even more international. And here's a geographical distribution of crypto traders there as you

Unknown Speaker  2:19  
guys know, all around the world.

Unknown Speaker  2:22  
But going in technology or capitalists, I mean technology snobs with venture capital thousand x upside, property rights, you know, what Bitcoin is, it's literally a ledger of transactions. It's something where everything that it does about the exchange of money to change a property

Unknown Speaker  2:37  
kind of tech or decentralized, you know,

Unknown Speaker  2:38  
I love the street from Benedict Evans, you know, the great thing about tech monopolies is how many there are choose from you do any market map, you know, whether it's fin tech, or biotech or wherever, you will have hundreds, hundreds, thousands of logos, there's, there's all of these different tech companies, all these different approaches. And none of these pequin itself is centralized in the sense of, you know, miners and nodes and what have you. It also has given rise to this entire crypto ecosystem. So even if Bitcoin security models attack, we've got proof of stake with all the other possibilities out there. Now, you know, I'm not saying it's perfectly decentralized, but it's on a continuum towards that ideally. And so there's there's many centers of power.

Unknown Speaker  3:15  
Bitcoin in tech are hyper deflationary.

Unknown Speaker  3:16  
So if you

Unknown Speaker  3:18  
know what this amusing kind of thing from the top, especially for, like nine years ago, you know, these were all the things that you needed to buy to equal a smartphone. So that smartphone that that piece of technology reduce your cost of everything else, if you have the same way. Like what if you hold Bitcoin and reduces your cost of everything else, if you hold it, it's a fundamentally hyper deflationary thing. And we're in the middle of that, before the tech are both networked, so, you know, technology is about a network like Association, it's folks who are near each other ideologically, they're, they're separated by the so called God systems, which is the number of degrees of separation and social network, as opposed to the great circle distance, which is the distance over, you know, like, like a globe. And, you know, like, if you look at the Bitcoin meetups, they're all around the world. It's not like just clustered in one geographic area. It is something which is a truly network, international phenomenon. They're gonna take our crypto, so like the crypto wars, you know, these were fought in the late 90s. You know, there are folks like, you know, Adam back and others who are involved in this. But basically, from the beginning Tech has been about encryption on indeed, without encryption, we wouldn't have HTTPS, we wouldn't have SSH wouldn't have SSL, we wouldn't have essentially the tech industry we do today and we certainly wouldn't have Bitcoin where it's about public and private key pairs. Korean tech or digital like this graphic above shows from an iPad you can

Unknown Speaker  4:41  
you know, find maps, you

Unknown Speaker  4:42  
can order food, you can listen to music, you can you know, like like write documents, essentially every everything either has been digitized or those that can't directly be digitized or interface to it has been. Bitcoin hasn't just digitized money in gold, but it's led to this entire crypto industry where we're digitizing stocks, bonds, commodities all So

Unknown Speaker  5:02  
we're going to check her volatile.

Unknown Speaker  5:03  
So, you know, it's a great quote from,

Unknown Speaker  5:05  
you know, Mark and Ben, the best thing that started to only ever experienced two emotions, euphoria and terror. And those are the emotions of a crypto trader as well.

Unknown Speaker  5:14  
So volatility, you know, the things anything you bootstrap from the

Unknown Speaker  5:17  
beginning just has high volatility, just the nature of it, you think it's going to the moon, then you think it's going to zero and then it's back and back and forth.

Unknown Speaker  5:26  
Because tech are ambitious.

Unknown Speaker  5:27  
So you

Unknown Speaker  5:28  
know, any startup, any founder has a hallucination about the future, something incredibly improbable that they are just willing into existence. And one of the very, very first posts of epic when was healthy, you know, responding to Satoshi and saying, Hey, you know, like, if if Bitcoin wins, that gives each coin the value of about 10 million? Is it really 100 million to one against can we make this happen. So that's like, incredibly insane, utopian sort of thing is, is just there, it's encoded

Unknown Speaker  5:53  
in the balance.

Unknown Speaker  5:56  
Satoshi believed his message board post would change the world he was right. And then

Unknown Speaker  6:01  
press motion for

Unknown Speaker  6:02  
the Bitcoin in tech are quietly revolutionary, say accomplish revolution, not by standing on street corners with sciencing, who's got the power,

Unknown Speaker  6:08  
not like that,

Unknown Speaker  6:10  
but but rather by lots of millions of private

Unknown Speaker  6:12  
actions. So you know, this is a crash in, you know, albums and the rise of streaming, this is the crash in action medallions and the rise of Uber. This is the crash of print media revenue, the rise of Google and Facebook. And, you know, similarly, this is basically the rise of Bitcoin. And what it's led to is, you know, millions of private actions quietly, you know, in, in, you know, people's homes and on their phones have led to a situation where, you know, the head of the IMF, you know, the People's Bank of China, the president knighted states, all these people are talking about Bitcoin and talking about cryptocurrency, and whether they're saying positive or negative things, it doesn't even really matter. What matters is that some of those incredibly obscure posts on the message boards causing gyrations every major bank, every major politician, every, you know, technology entrepreneur, every VC knows about it. And that's this incredible achievement for just 10 years.

Unknown Speaker  7:04  
Okay, so the future.

Unknown Speaker  7:07  
Basically, I think, of kryptos, restoring many traditional American rights, or freedom of speech, freedom of contract, freedom of association, protection against unreasonable search and seizure, the right to privacy, these things are accomplished not just by Bitcoin, but by technologies like z cash is almost like a theory of this spectrum of things together, where we're starting to defend our rights cryptographically rather than through, you know, fallible humans and fallible laws. And the thing about this is, not only does it restore many traditional us rights, it nevertheless appeals internationally. It's kind of what you know, America used to be like a, like a signal to the world of what you know, the right way to live was of our values. And something which is non violent, it's capitalist, it's anti war. It's like kind of what what, you know, I think the best of America stands for, and I think this is the big axis of the 2020s. where, you know, this is a great like, article, you should read it, if you haven't heard the modern monetary theory, read all about it. This is going to make every Bitcoin or a millionaire, it's gonna make everybody else a millionaire as well, if it goes through. But But essentially, it's a premise that, you know, it takes the the true statement, the observation that the state can't print money. And it turns into the recommendation that the state should print money to solve problems to pay for paper, everything's monetized. And this, you know, video Hamilton versus Satoshi, I think that is what the 2020s are going to be about East Coast versus West Coast, land versus cloud state versus network. centralized versus decentralized, nationalist and socialist versus international capitalist. Hamilton versus Toshi and mmt versus BTC. I think that amidst this, in the 2020s, people will start aligning behind Bitcoin and what it represents in the crypto community. And this goes from kind of the edges of tech to the center in the same way that seed investing went from the edges of tech to the center.

Unknown Speaker  8:56  
So thank you very much.

Unknown Speaker  9:05  
I guess I could take a question or two.

Unknown Speaker  9:14  
Yeah, I'll put the I'll put the slides online. Yeah.

Unknown Speaker  9:17  
I guess I'm curious. You seem to understand that, eventually going political. And I'm wondering, do you ever think there'll be a sea of emergency where essentially states are going to start attacking individuals that are known entities within the space? Um, yeah, it's a great question. So I think that the, the thing that happened with the Huawei CFO being like, kind of detained in Canada, I think is something's gonna happen much more frequently in the future, where like known individuals tech people are sort of detained by states as, like this geopolitical thing if they're large crypto holders and so on. So yeah, I mean, like, I've got my math book just in case they do that for me. Yeah, if nation states wanted to destroy Bitcoin, what do you think is

Unknown Speaker  10:05  
the most effective way to do it? So I

Unknown Speaker  10:07  
think China, like took a good swing at it in 2017. And, you know, the price increased 20 x. So, so I'm not being given a flip answer, but that's actually like, you know, they took a pretty good swing. And now, you know, like, I don't know what the reports are true, but something I saw him on said, The China's not banning any, any mention of blockchains a scam on social media. If that's true, that's amazing. That's incredible. Uturn you know, you can't beat them join them in a sense. Um, and I think China is more competent than the US on tech stuff, like, you know, the sense of just as a neutral observation, many more

Unknown Speaker  10:41  
trans politicians know what a firewall is, then

Unknown Speaker  10:43  
an American policy would probably define it, you know, they're engineers, as opposed to lawyers or what have you. But let's say that you really want it to truly fight they're going to give so I think the predator prey we would say it's China. First you blocked 43 three, right? So you're just trying to stop packets that are becoming really different coming in Okay, then you respond with you know, packet or like a port randomization, you pick different ports at time, then they respond by essentially doing you know, Packet Inspection, then you try to tunnel it over SSH or, or some other protocol, then they do deep packet inspection, they do some ml to try to look for Bitcoin like characteristics. And then, you know, at that point, it gets to interesting predator prey, that the algorithm you use would have to be something where you could publish it, people could read it, because it's open source. And nevertheless, the random seed would still protect against jeopardy. We use enough different protocols enough different obfuscation. I think you can given that that synchronizing you know the blockchain takes a relatively small amount of data, I think it would still be somewhere the one and B thing actually becomes handy. I think it would still be possible properly to protect, you know, the blockchain and make it something that people could sync amongst themselves. Another backup is actually, you know, the block stream satellite, you know, whether it's actually launched or not, is a good concept because nations have airspace, but space space is actually something where you can fly something over on you can't geostationary necessarily, but you can beam down, you know, access to, for example, a Bitcoin blockchain of chains. So I think that's where the predator prey would happen, it would be at the network level. And in the event that you could successfully interfere with it, you would cause essentially a temporary partition, where let's say all the mining is in China, all the transactions are in the rest of the world, and you get chain extension happening in China, a transaction happening in the rest of Romania was peekaboo problem is that the chain synced up, that could lead to issues, you might have to go to like a semi trusted model for time, it could lead to a fork between like a china coin or rest of world coin. And so I think, you know, preparing for something like that, where there's a possible network partition and eventual consensus, that is one of the biggest threats against BTC beyond the snatch and grab.

Unknown Speaker  12:49  
But I think I think it's feasible

Unknown Speaker  12:51  
to protect the incentive or wherever.

Unknown Speaker  12:54  
Yeah. So given the alignment in values between that you mentioned, during your talk between like Bitcoin and kind of like traditional American values? How would you think about reconciling a flat, broad base traction that we see in like the wider consumer sector in the United States? And like, what do you see as potential tipping points? Sure, or that activation energy? It's actually a great question. So I think today, and probably still, for a while, crypto appeals to two different

Unknown Speaker  13:29  
kinds of demographics

Unknown Speaker  13:30  
to you know, the the power users

Unknown Speaker  13:32  
and the marginalized, not the people in the middle. And let me explain. So the power users are like developers or finance ears, these are people who have the problem of moving a million dollars around the world or paying a million people $1 at a time,

Unknown Speaker  13:45  
you're trying to do

Unknown Speaker  13:46  
things with money that are pushing the system that you know, normal banking system won't let you do. And on the other end, are

Unknown Speaker  13:52  
those folks who are the you know, of course, the

Unknown Speaker  13:54  
unbanked but also the unbanked will, the D platform even device so the unbanked are of course, the sympathetic ones, you know, who are in you know, India or Africa, they don't actually have a bank account, given bankable or the lesson thetic ones, they're like, you know, marijuana entrepreneurs or folks who can't get a bank account, the D platform, those who've been, you know, pushed off of PayPal or happier and devices, which are like machines that wouldn't have bank on the first place.

Unknown Speaker  14:17  
So for those folks

Unknown Speaker  14:18  
are things on the edges, you know, the power users and the folks, you know, are marginalized in some sense. That's where crypto is useful today. And there's some entities like finance that are both at the same time,

Unknown Speaker  14:29  
you know, they're both a power user of money,

Unknown Speaker  14:32  
and they're like quasi unbanked and only the peripheries of the system. Um, I think what happens is that that eventually, you know, once you start building tools for yourself, eventually it comes into the middle. Linux is, again, a good analogy. Linux was a power users tool for a long time. And everybody gave up on Linux on the desktop. And then it actually happened because you had Android. And then arguably, iOS is also BSD based. So you had Unix on the desktop, and that became everybody's desktop, it just sort of rebranded and change your name to something for the next desktop. So the equivalent of that would be crypto i think is probably VR. So by, you know, the the late 2020s, when everybody has millions of oculus headsets, um, we were sort of opting into VR, you're spending all that time you spent looking at screen a good chunk of bits in VR. And then for an environment like that digital currency is like the only kind of option. So I think that's where the thing truly goes vertical. But until then, or until, like some kind of inflection points to be a producer technology

Unknown Speaker  15:22  
didn't get very far.

Unknown Speaker  15:27  
anymore. Good. Okay. We'll call it. Thank you.

Transcribed by https://otter.ai
