Sten Tamkivi  0:00  
Constantine there.

Balaji comes from my own alma mater. He's a Stanford lifer. He's done his bachelor's, master's, and PhD all in the same university. But just for the fun of it in three different disciplines. He's taught, so electrical engineering, chemical engineering and computer science. And he's taught data mining, statistics, computational biology. And recently he taught an online course. If you've heard about MOOCs, the massively online online courses, then then Balaji has, I think, over 125,000 students and taking turns 200,000, though, so 200,000 teach kids around the world, from the rich and the poor countries alike, are using his online courses to to study what does it mean to be a startup engineer and how to make startups happen? So let us be amongst college students today. And he's going to be talking about his thoughts about digital identity. Welcome.

Balaji Srinivasan  1:05  
Okay, I'm not sure I can live up to that very kind introduction. But, you know, I've got a, I think, a fairly provocative talk here today. Or, you know, maybe it'll be, um, and addresses actually, many of the issues that President Ilves, you know, raised. And I think issues that are on people's minds. And let me I'll explain the title in the middle of it. Let's see if the clicker works here. All right, great. All right. So here's my intro, you know, Stan already did this. So I won't belabor you with it. But basically, jack of all trades, master of none. I'm currently CEO of 21, which is the best one to Bitcoin company in the world. And raised his hand mentioned more than 100 $20 million from Qualcomm, Cisco, interesting Horowitz, Yuan, capital, etc, to basically make Bitcoin ubiquitous, to make it a next, the next hardware resource, like you know, memory and CPU, you'd have Bitcoin as a scarce hardware resource. I'm initially 21. As Stan mentioned, I'm the co founder of teleport where Stan is the CEO of that. And, you know, that'll actually enter into, you know, kind of what we talked about, but you can think of it as a search engine to find the best place for you to live. Right. So if you were actually jurisdiction shopping, and you type in your preferences, rather than having a ballot, where you vote in your preferences, or aggregate with other people in your same geographical location, what if that ballot were a search query, would actually find the XY spot on the surface of earth that best fit your preferences, so it's kind of like the motivation behind teleport restarting, but mobility is a compliment to democracy. Um, okay, so, you know, that's just background kind of, you know, what, what I've done with sins done, and so on. I'm a sort of motivation. For sort of the thesis here, I want to give a brief tour through a bunch of different headlines, all of which have a common theme that I believe will become emergent in a little bit. So, um, first example, there's this, you know, image over here, by the way, on the right hand side, which I'll explain towards the end, but its image of Hobbes's Leviathan, um, recently, you know, there's been a lot of articles on Greece, and people have observed just like they did two years ago in Cyprus, that capital controls that are imposed by the state could be routed around by those who possess Bitcoin, because you'd basically have to have a very sophisticated firewall, around the country, you'd have to have very sophisticated packet filtering to actually be able to stop Bitcoin from from getting out of the country, you wouldn't be able to do it with just blocking wire transfers. So Bitcoin is a tool versus capital controls. Another headline on 3d printing versus regulation, right? So you know, just like Bitcoin is going to turn capital controls into packet filtering, 3d printing promises to turn regulation into DRM, digital rights management. So here's three examples. In the upper left corner, you can 3d print a gun now, okay, Homeland Security in the United States says it's impossible to stop 3d printed guns, you can 3d print a robotic hand. And that's not going through the FDA if you're literally just downloading a file and printing it. So this man has a $50, 3d printed hand to a $42,000, FDA cleared prosthesis, and you can 3d print a military grade drone, okay, so literally download a file, you've got your own personal Air Force. So you know, the kid next door, you may not want to tell them to get off your lawn. And so what's interesting about this is that the state can only really stop this kind of thing. With DRM, you have to actually go after the 3d printer manufacturer and say, You can't print this kind of file, right? Because 3d printing has enough like, you know, non provocative uses, that you're not just gonna be able to stop 3d printers. And the same way you won't be able to stop computers. So you actually haven't been able to stop it at the digital level with DRM, right? And then that, of course, can be routed around just like people router around, you know, the DRM of DVDs, and so on and so forth. So regulation becomes DRF. Another example now I'll give quite a few of these mobile diagnostics versus licensing. So basically, you know, one of the big things that's happening, it hasn't yet become Extremely mainstream. There's not yet an Uber for this, but it is becoming increasingly possible to self diagnose yourself, that is to say, to use a measurement of your own glucose levels of your own bilirubin and hematocrit and all these other variables. And to plug that into an algorithm that actually tells you what's going on, you know, with your body. Right now we have something that's kind of remarkable from the vantage point of 15 years ago, today, we're never lost, we never don't know where we are. Because we always have a phone like this, where we can look up our location. And with tools like this in the relatively near future, you will never not know what you're sick from, you'll always know your infection, it'll be considered, you know, obvious that you should be able to look that up and find that out yourself. And the reason this is a big deal is your medical license is being turned into a software license. So this is a third example of how kind of technology is taking over functions that were previously performed by the state, right. We mentioned, capital controls coming packet filtering, regulation, DRM, but, you know, mobile diagnostics, turning a medical license into effectively a software license. I'll give you several more.

Another example. So that's Edward Snowden over there, right, Edward Snowden is banned from coming into United States physically. But he can travel anywhere in the world, he wants digitally. Right? With telepresence, your immigration policy, and the ability to enforce immigration policy is the ability to have a firewall that is sensitive enough to actually capture telepresence connections and stop them. And right now those robots are there are kind of, you know, very much in version one where it's just a screen on wheels and so on. But relatively soon, we're going to have things which are like actual, you know, droids that walk around, right, and the various technologies are there remains for someone to combine them, they'll actually have a humanoid droid on the other side that you can animate with kind of a suit, like this. And you can actually raise the hands and so on, so forth, and turn the head. And over time, this will become fairly lifelike. If you look at what the Japanese have done, they're already kind of there. So that means is that the ability to stop someone from entering your country is going to be a function of how good your programmers are in terms of writing a firewall election can detect those kinds of permanent or semi permanent connections. Okay. Okay, so another example, on GoPros. Right. So, you know, South Carolina recently passed a law, the first state that's actually mandated the use of body cameras, by police. Why, because of recent events in the United States, the sworn word of an officer of the state is considered less trustworthy than the digital record of a camera connected to the internet. Right? That's amazing. If you think about that, right. Like, you know, these technologies are taking over steep functions, things that were previously the jurisdiction of the state, you know, the state itself is saying, it's not trustworthy, it doesn't trust its own people that trust the network more. Another example, so I'm over there, that's Moxie marlinspike, who has, you know, written code to encrypt your text on the lower right corner, that's FBI Director James Comey, who is, you know, basically complaining about the advent of full disk encryption, by you know, Apple and Google encryption that the government does not have a backdoor to. And this is something where, you know, the government may have a search warrant. But encryption can actually defeat that it doesn't matter if the government has a search warrant, if it actually isn't something that someone wants to give up. So again, technology is taking over a function of the state, basically, you need a password to actually search somebody. And while at first you might think, okay, that's limited to emails, and digital communications, and so on. Already, we're starting to see things like, you know, property, for example, your Tesla's and your smart locks, and so on sort of physical property is increasingly being secured by digital means. So ability to see somebody's property to search it is again, a function of whether or not you have the password or not whether you have a word. Another example. So this is a really interesting one. There's a guy there who got off of a particular charge, because he was showing posting something on Facebook. That was his alibi. It wasn't a jury of peers, it was his posts on Facebook.

So again, this internet community, the network is taking over a function that was previously you know, a state process. And that's actually considered something that's more reliable, okay. Obviously, he was on Facebook, he wasn't committing this armed robbery, right? You can actually pull the timestamps, it can't be faked. Another example, so this is healthcare.gov, which people here probably, you know, some of you're familiar with. Um, so it was a disaster when it launched. And what happened was basically, you know, about half a dozen people from Silicon Valley went out there and fixed it on and have now become part of a growing team within the government, the US government that is to basically reinvent the way things are done there, right technologists within the government, because there's been a recognition that a lot of these paper based 20th century processes simply cannot keep up with the demands of today. And, you know, one more example and this maybe is one of the most interesting ones. So upper left corner shows, you know, the Navy's latest work It runs on Linux. So you can do a cyber attack and in theory gain control of something like that. But the lower right corner, and maybe is even more interesting than that, which is an article from, you know, the end of last year, around the time of the whole interview scandal and the Sony hack, and, you know, North Korea being accused of it, and so on and so forth. There's this amazing quote that ended in New York Times article where it said that the President was actually reticent about ordering a hack back against North Korea for fear of retaliation. And that's really interesting, because, you know, the United States has, unfortunately invaded a lot of countries or last decade, and didn't really fear in them invading back. But it does fear them hacking back, right. So there's a much greater balance of power in the cyber realm than there is in the physical realm. Right. So that's maybe the most important of all of these things, because now you're talking about, you know, Clausewitz and so on, you're talking about politics by other means, right? The final resort of a state, the use of force is no longer something that the United States has an overwhelming advantage in the digital realm. And so all these things, you know, what does all of this mean? Take this all together, I can give more and more headlines like this, but you start to see a common thread emerging. The common thread is basically something that relates to a concept from Thomas Hobbes called the Leviathan, right? What is the Leviathan Leviathan is that force that hovers above men, and makes us behave in pro social ways, right? fallible men and women. How do you correct for sort of human nature? How do you have people fear something more powerful than themselves, and not misbehave? even, you know, when they may be tempted to do so. Right? So? No, it's kind of a classic track and political theory. And that Leviathan is that thing that hovers above us. And, you know, this may be a provocative way to phrase it. But one way of thinking about it is that we are undergoing a transition of violence, right? In the 1800s. In the United States, at least, you could argue that the Leviathan was God, right? Like many, many people really believe in God. And you know, I make no claim as to whether that's true or not. But it was something which was like a distributed governance, right, the 10 commandments, people really feared going to hell, and so on and so forth. By the late 1800s, you know, and nature, you know, wrote, you know, his tracks, and one of his things was, you know, quote, God is dead, right? And what, why did he say that he said that, because educated people, a critical mass of them no longer believed, they no longer believed in something that was going to strike them with a lightning bolt, right? So because of this, there's a rise of uniformed police forces, right. And thus, we entered the 20th century, the century of the steam, even if you did not believe in God, there was a policeman with a blue button, there was a soldier with a gun, right? Even if you did not believe in God, there was a force that would regulate right, and, you know, the Soviet Union, it was like sort of a pure state form. And you know, mid mid century United States was sort of like a god state hybrid. If you look at the US Marine Corps slogan, it was forgotten country, right.

And so what's happening now is, there's a new Leviathan that is arising and if you look at the kind of things at the bottom there, you know, the 1800s, why'd you steal, because you fear that God would smite you, you'd actually be hit with a lightning bolt, but the 1900s when you steal, because the state would punish you, a policeman would come take you to jail. But policemen don't exist on the internet. If you if someone goes and steals Bitcoin from you, right, and they're in China, or they're in Russia, or something like that, the the local precinct is absolutely helpless. Right? So it is as helpless to go to the local policeman and tell them your Bitcoin was stolen as it was to go and pray in the 1900s, for you know, at least for to solve a robbery. And so new forms of force are going to be applied on the internet. Right? And this is what's emerging now is that the network is becoming the next Leviathan, right? That force that hovers above, and makes fallible people behave in pro social ways, right? So in the 2000s, people don't steal why, because network won't let them. And by this network, I speak the network in two forms. There's the machine network above, which is the internet, right computers that are linked to each other that infallibly execute the instructions that were given to them. They may not do what you want, but they will do what you ask them to do. And second, complimentary to that is the social network, right? Your neighbors not have chance, not the people who live near you in apartment buildings, but by choice, the people who have actually selected and bonded with, right, those two networks are complementary. And those are becoming more and more important as the regulators of human affairs. And so when we talk about like the network taking over from the state, right, this is a gradual process, but I think of it as probably the most important phenomenon of the early 2000s. And perhaps of this century. And this has, you know, a few different aspects. So you know, I'll talk through each of these points in turn, but an upper left corner, kind of the primitive for it all the underlying mechanism is encryption, right encryption is this fundamental primitive it is the thing which is the foundation for these emerging network states. I'm a second important technology are really pair of technologies that are rising is virtual reality and Bitcoin, right. So basically with virtual ground You also have virtual currency, people are going to very soon be living in digital worlds that occupy a lot of their time. And one way you might think about that it might sound fantastic or fanciful. But think about how much time each of the, you know, the people here spend looking at a screen, right? If you're an information worker, whether you know, a civil servant, or a lawyer, a doctor, especially an engineer, it might be close to 50% of your waking hours, in the very near future, within 10 years, that's not going to be looking at a monitor, it's going to be with VR glasses on, you're gonna be spending more than 50% of your lives literally in the matrix. Okay, so you're actually going to be in these 3d worlds and on a 2d world. So that's kind of step two. And a lot of these things are kind of ongoing, but but the scale of how big they are going to get hasn't yet necessarily been fully appreciated. Kind of the third step, and it's already kind of happening in parallel is the rise of network state. So transnational associations and social networks are increasingly trumping local allegiances, based on geography, or accidental geography.

So there's a headline there that says Facebook now has more users in the population of China. 1.4 billion versus 1.3. Okay, and there's another one there, which is a little small, but it ranks the countries of the world by their population. Number one, Facebook number two, China number three, India number 410, cent, and so on and so forth. Right. Number five WhatsApp, number six United States. Okay, now, that's an interesting and unfair comparison. But on the other side, you know, how much time do people spend on Facebook versus spending deliberating the Constitution's of their respective nations, you know, arguably, Mark Zuckerberg or Larry Page, you know, has more reach for what they post on Facebook or the Google Home Page than any ostensible Sovereign of the nation state, so you know, where those citizens reside. fourth point, um, these cloud formations will we believe take physical shape, right. So once you have people who are communicating transnationally, exchanging not just information, but currency, living with each other, not just in 2d realms on a screen, but 3d immersive worlds, they are going to want to actually meet up in person, right? Because, you know, while there are certain kinds of things you can do on the internet, there's other things that do require in person, right, we haven't yet figured out how to reproduce over the internet, for example. So you're going to have meetups in person. And so we think of this as these cloud formations, all these nodes that meet on the internet, you know, initially taking physical shape, like a reverse diaspora, right? If you think about a diaspora diaspora starts with a group of people who are physically concentrated, and spreads them to the four winds. This is a reverse Jasper, a group of people who meets for the first time on internet, they have the same thoughts, they search the same search query, it's the same hashtags, they group together, then they form connections, and then they decide to meet up in person, right? For example, the Estonia friends, right? This is a cloud community here taking physical shape. fifth point. So all of this kind of leads to something which we sort of think of as the sequel or the compliment to democracy, right? So right now you have a ballot, and that ballot is aggregated in a location with all the other people there. And very roughly speaking, if 51% of people vote one way, or pursue another, you know, something becomes legal or illegal, right. But there's another way of thinking about it, which is that you can treat that ballot as a search query across all the jurisdictions of the world for which you have access to enter. And you can actually balance the cost of voting locally, which is, you know, a couple of hours to go down to the polling station, versus exiting and immigrating, like my parents did, like many of you know, the people's parents didn't, you know, you could not change the laws in the country, which you grew up and it was, you know, not not feasible. So instead, you exit into the country whose law suits you best that you had access to. And finally, you know, what are the implications of these kinds of things for Sonia, I think, possibly the smartest governor of the world doanload or head of state I know, who can code at this level? Is that a state of Singapore, which is my, you know, tied for favorite country? I think he residency could actually be a really core kind of thing as this kind of state to network transition occurs. Because there there are and will be hybrids, the so called God to state transition that I mentioned, the US did, when that versus the USSR, God did not completely go away, right? and assume the state will not completely go away. I think a pure network entity will be sort of difficult to manage, but hybrid entities are going to be much more powerful than traditional trade century states. Let's let's talk about these points in turn for a little bit. Um, so encryption is step one, right. So on the right hand side is a quote from Julian Assange, a, you know, got some ellipses in there, but says in this way people can oppose their will, via corruption to that of a fully mobilized superpower. And when well, nuclear weapon states can exert unlimited violence over even millions of individual strong cryptography means that a state even by exercising unlimited violence, cannot violate the intent of individuals to keep secrets from them. Strong cryptography can resist an unlimited application of violence, no amount of course of force will ever solve a math problem. That's very interesting. Um, you know, basically, is something where unless you have access to that physical person, there's you know, you can't yell at them Bitcoin or Ricky can't put a tank at it, too. You know, unlock its secrets, you have to actually do the computer.

And when we started thinking about this is, you know, just imagine you have, you know, like a Red Dawn like situation, for example, Finland during the Winter War or something like that we have a group of people who is driven from land. And you know, they had to organize our intranet and maybe take it back. Right? So it's interesting when you start thinking about right encryption is step one for this emerging state, is you go down the list, right? So you start with them. Let's see here, I can't see an arrow. Yes. So you start with two way communication, right. So two way communication is uncensored communication. If you can have an encrypted connection that can't be interdicted, right, then you go to gateway communication, like group communication, like a, you know, Facebook group, for example, if that's encrypted, then people can communicate. You progress to K way crowdfunding with Bitcoin, k with software development, where you're funding arbitrary soccer, KB hardware development, where you're doing 3d printed items, right? Then you can actually do remote power projection, right? Power projection currently today is restricted to those countries that have aircraft carriers, right? Tomorrow, it won't be there'll be who can hack the other guys, drones, other guys, you know, telepresence robots, who can 3d print drones in that country, and so on so forth. At the end, you can actually take that territory back winning. And so that's kind of how you could actually have a plan where even if you're forced from a location, you can come back and get it, right. And so this is why we kind of think of encryption as step one for this network state. And the second big part of this is virtual reality and Bitcoin, right? So if you see what Palmer Luckey is trying to do with Oculus create an MMO world with a billion people in it, right? Now, this is actually something which has already been presage by technology. It's called World of Warcraft, right? It has 10s of millions of people in it. And one of the things that happens with technologies, often the first version of a product is used by you know, nerds, gamers, people in Silicon Valley, you know, weirdos internet people, like for example, palm pilots. And then 10 years later, everybody's using an iPhone, right? Or people are using email and you know, in academia, and then 10 years later, everybody's using email, right? So the same way all those nerds and so on who are on World of Warcraft, you know, about 10 years ago, many of the people here are going to be in effectively an immersive world and about 10 years, because the time that you spent on your monitor is going to be replaced with the time with a VR headset on, right. So once you're in that VR world, well, there's things you can do on the internet right now very easily, you can poke and like and tweet and favored each each other across borders, right? You can have a Facebook feed where you have Greek friends, and Japanese friends, and so on all liking the same post. And location is really an afterthought. I mean, literally an afterthought, in the sense that if you use Facebook Messenger, and you message somebody, it will show your location as an afterthought. Right, the text is, you know, the connection between two humans is present human as a location, both as nodes change, you know, the question, Where are you is a very 21st century question. Because, you know, in centuries past your interlocutor was probably on the other side of the table. Right? They weren't, you know, in some other country, right? So, the thing that's interesting about this as well, we can poke in like and tweet and feed each other, we can easily transact with each other across borders, until Bitcoin, right? And Bitcoin does, I won't belabor it, but it basically turns payments into packets. So the same kinds of things, mechanisms that you can use to poke people and fake people with on Twitter and Facebook can be applied to now pay people, which means that a totally new form of coordination is going to arise from internet, not just social coordination, not just open source, but economic coordination. Right, transnational companies effectively, right. Okay, so talk about the rise of the network state. So what is a third point? You know, why do we, you know, kind of think of this as a thing that's happening. So very important book by Robert Putnam called Bowling Alone, that appeared in you know, around 2000 2001. And essentially, what he found was something which is kind of sad, that the most frequent number of people who were going bowling together in the early 2000s was one, right people were going bowling by themselves, right? Because basically, offline community in the United States, by many, many measures had shrunk dramatically, or in the second half of the 20th century, all the Elks clubs, all of the churches, all of these things that formed the glue, the extracellular matrix that hooked nodes together in this offline community went away, it was sort of burst, right? And people were just sort of these gnomic individuals are floating in free space, and they didn't have ties to each other, right? Until the internet came. And now what happens is something really interesting where they're engaging with each other not in the physical world, not with the anonymous people who inhabit the same apartment complex your neighbors of chance, but the people in the same social network Who are your neighbors of choice, right? One way I sort of think about it is that you know, Snapchat is on a straight line with the dissolution of the nation state, because you're sharing your most intimate moments, not with the person who is necessarily next to you, for the person who could be thousands of miles away, and you don't know your next door neighbor. Right and going all the way back to what Falling in 1648, the underlying assumption of a nation state has been that people in the same geographic

region share the same culture and therefore will agree on the same laws. And so geography is both the way that people agreed on culture and the way that they enforce laws. If however, culture is something which people agree upon in the cloud, which is non-geographic entity, then geography is no longer the appropriate way to enforce laws, it's going to be a cloud mechanism to enforce law, it's going to be cryptography related rather than geography or later. fourth point. So this is a really, I think, an interesting table. This is from the kind of article that you know, I discussed with Sam called software's reorganizing the world. Essentially, if you define this cloud formation as a group of people who meet on the internet, right, so they don't know each other offline, then meet on the internet for the first time, define them taking physical shape as amassing in the same spot, right. And a really interesting fact is that the scale and duration of cloud formations, taking physical shape has no upper bound. That's to say you can have an arbitrarily large group of people meeting up for an arbitrarily long period of time. And as those scales and duration, start increasing the significance of those, you know, cloud formations increases, right. So you start, for example, in the first row, and you have two people who meet up on LinkedIn, and then they come in, in person for, you know, a day and that's like a coffee meeting, right. But it gets more significant when you talk about, say, eharmony.com, two people meet on the internet, they come together, they get married, they're together for 10 years, right? That's a small cloud formation coming together, the world is being resorted geographically, based on shared values in the cloud. And then people research geographically. As you go through these rows, you kind of see that you have larger scales. So for example, you have on the order of 10 people coming to their front door for a year and a hacker house. That's a basically a community of programmers that gets together in Silicon Valley and works on the same thing, or a technology startup that primarily recruits from the internet has an agglomeration of something on the order of a few hundred people for a year. In the lower left corner, you get things like, you know, the Arab Spring, where you have hundreds of thousands of people massing through Facebook for a day, right. And we shuffling with the lower right corner, you start to get some really interesting phenomena where you're talking about now hundreds of thousands of people come together for 10 years, right? So I wrote this article in 2013. And you know, people said, Oh, Balaji, you're totally crazy. You know, that's never gonna happen, etc, even though they're kind of things on the border. But I'll actually argue that thing has already happened. And it's actually happened in sort of a negative way. It's called ISIS. Right? Basically, you have a group of people who kind of agglomerate around the hashtag lb, beheading, and mast, in basically what was formerly Iraq, or the borders in men. So it matters to them. This thing exists primarily on the internet, right? The people who are actually there in, you know, what was formerly Iraq, like beheading people are actually just a protrusion of a much larger mass that primarily exists on the internet. And this is actually a fusion of all three leviathans. It's the Islamic State, and it's based on the network. So it's God state and network. Right. So that's like a really interesting fusion. And it's a negative fusion. It's one where basically, the internet was used to sort people based on values into a really horrible kind of thing. But there's going to be positive fusions as well, a positive fusion, which I think is happening now is what's happening in Silicon Valley, where all these people are coming together from around the world, every country, literally every country computer on the base of pound technology, right? So that hash tag is grouping people drawing people from around the world. And so what's going to happen with the internet is we're going to get a totally new kind of diversity, but to say, people are just going to go and mass and group on the basis of their values, right? There's going to be these mass migrations that happen. And that is sort of, you know, what we think is coming next, right? Maybe it's five years, maybe it's 10 years, maybe it's 15 years. But the combination of social mobile VR search is going to catalyze an era of mass migrations, right, people are going to find their true communities in the cloud. And because it becomes easier and easier and easier to move, right, right now, you know, mobile means that you can go and grab a taxi, and then you can go and get a hotel, and you can get flights and so on very easily. So short hops have become easier and easier and easier, you're less and less connected to your house to work in the near term future is going to mean not just a short hop to your coffee shop, but easier permanent relocation between countries. Right, once that becomes easier, once people have less friction from moving from place to place. Once borders are less of a barrier and all your customs forms are automated, then what's going to happen is jurisdiction shopping is going to become much more common. Right now it's limited basically to companies and large entities that can afford to do all the tax calculations and figure out where their optimal place to live is. In the same way, for example, a USD like South Carolina, or Texas will go and offer tax incentives for companies to locate in the relatively near future governments will offer incentives for individuals or ad hoc groups formed on internet to look at, right. And the way that's going to happen, is going to be through something called t bow sorting. So this is actually an academic concept that was discovered in the mid 20th century. And so Wikipedia Article, I won't read the whole thing, but I would encourage you to Google it.

And the reason it's important to Google is this guy in the in the mid 1900s, I basically wrote the equations for this. And then I went and searched and searched and searched. And I found that some guy hadn't mentioned it like 40 years ago, which is always the case with all math, right. But this guy wrote up these equations, essentially describing a community where there were no free riders, right? All the problems typically associated with government were reduced substantially because everybody in the community was paying for the services that they valued and not forced to pay more or, you know, wanting a service that they would pay for and not having the critical mass to pay for it. Right. And the assumptions in his model of basically tiebout sorting, everybody had a preference vector and went in sorted are now being realized by technology. Okay, so teba had several assumptions in his model. One of them was that, you know, people are mobile, right? Another is that they have perfect information. Right. Another is that their commute time wasn't that big a deal, right, and so on, and so forth. And these assumptions and to model, basically, frictionless citizens with perfect information, are being increasingly realized by new technologies. So TiVo sorting is very, very important, and may be the single most like, non obvious consequence of having these mobile supercomputers in our products pockets at all times. But these will allow you not just to set your homepage, but to find your home. And to do that, and change that as easily as changing your homepage, hit a button. And now the flights are booked, Uber pulls up, the Lyft pulls up, and you're off to the airport, because that country didn't serve you and other one did. Right? So it means that governments now actually become more like companies in the sense that just like Cheerios can lose somebody's business, if they don't, you know, have good customer service, like are making lose their business. Now, this is actually why I say that, like Estonia is extremely well suited for this, like Singapore, Estonia is a small country that actually does know that it needs to do things to attract entrepreneurs and to be good for business, right? Where you're doing the residency, I think of is extraordinarily farsighted. You know, among other things, you know, sort of thing of Estonia as being an amazing country accept its location is a little difficult. It's about 24 hours away from Silicon Valley by flight, I haven't slept in a couple of days, just to get here. And there sort of a bad neighborhood in the sense that on the one hand, you have, you know, the former Soviet Union and Russia, and other hand, you have NATO and the EU, and you know, who knows what's going to happen with the EU? Right? And so it seems like, okay, you know, no way out. But there is the CX, there is the cloud, right? You actually can go and sign up millions and millions and millions of Estonian residents, such that if Estonia has a problem, you have a reserve army all around the world, sort of like Ireland has this kind of reserve army in the US, right. And it's kind of an interesting concept of sort of these auxiliaries that, you know, kind of know about Estonia, maybe it's a place or doing business, they have a loyalty to it, right. And it's something where you can actually increase the market size, get that digital common market that the President was talking about, in a totally different way, not by trying to go and convince all these other people in Europe to go and change their laws, but just build a market yourself with all these Estonian new restaurants. So thank you.

Sten Tamkivi  33:20  
And we're heading for a 15 minute break now. And I have to ask, first of all, remember that you can check out the main Parliament hole and think of questions because when we return here, then we'll try to have a conversation around the things that you just heard. Thank you.

Balaji Srinivasan  33:42  
I got second.

Transcribed by https://otter.ai
