Harry Stebbings  0:00  
Welcome to the 20 minute VC. I'm your host Terry Stebbings at h stubbings. on Snapchat, and you can also find us on new blog. It's absolutely fantastic called mohito vc.com. That name is never going to get old. And for the blog, think of it as a cross between Fred Wilson and Freakonomics bringing the fun, nerdy and slightly naughty side to VC HR will probably love me. I'd love to hear your thoughts, but it is Friday today. And that means it's time to meet an incredible founder and I'm actually nervous of introducing this one as no intro will do him justice. But here goes so joining us in the hot seat we have Balaji Srinivasan Balaji is the founder and CEO at 21 and co the company that believes for Bitcoin to succeed we need to build the full stack infrastructure for Bitcoin from Silicon to hardware, and they have backing from some of the best in the world including a16z, Peter teal, Scott and Sam Bannister, navall raava Khan and previous guests data collectives Matt ocho Balaji, is also a board partner at Andreessen Horowitz, where he served for the past three years prior to Andreessen and 21. Balaji was co founder and CTO at counsel, the genomic startup there now tests 4% of all US births and raised $65 million in funding. How could I forget Balaji has also been a professor at Stanford for the last 10 years such an incredible individual and genuinely one of the most intelligent people I've ever met and had on the show and a huge thanks to Holly maibaum at matrix partners for the intro to Balaji. State I so appreciate that. But before we meet Balaji let's be honest, most problems start in the mind whether it be fear, anger, stress, anxiety, sleeplessness, they begin in your head, but they can really wreck your life and meditation can help and headspace is meditation made since there's a mountain of science showing the positive effects of meditation and mindfulness and the headspace app provides guided meditations you can use whenever you want, wherever you want, on your phone, computer or tablet, and they have sessions focused on everything from dealing with stress and anxiety to eating healthier, to sleeping better, and even being more creative is 1% of your day that can really change the other 99 So download the headspace app and train your mind for a happier, healthier life. And you can learn more at headspace comm forward slash 20 Vc that's headspace.com forward slash 20 Vc, I also have to give a huge hand to a product that has really changed the way I live and work and that is Luma. Luma is the world's first ever surround Wi Fi system that brings speed, security and control to your home network. It's finally Wi Fi love and unlike traditional routers Luma comes in a pack of two three sleep devices to place in different rooms around your home. For me one of the most impressive aspects was then the seamless onboarding process as the app guides you through a simple setup and in just minutes. Luma creates a mesh network that work together to create an outrageously fast ultra secure surround Wi Fi network. Lastly, lumas app lets you easily see and controlled which devices users and content are being used on your network. So it's perfect for anyone who wants to be able to stream in the family room game in the playroom to conduct video conferences in the office and much more all at the same time. So if you want to join me in the joy of having incredible home Wi Fi, simply head over to get loomer.com amazon.com home depot.com bestbuy.com where you can even add into Best Buy stores and buy them in person. They really are incredible. However, it's now time for me to shut up and hand over to Balaji Srinivasan founder and CEO at 21.

You have now arrived at your destination. Because she's such a pleasure to have you on the show stage. Huge signs to hardy at matrix the intro. But thank you so much for joining me stay

Balaji Srinivasan  3:32  
Yeah, happy to be here.

Harry Stebbings  3:33  
Now I'd love to get started state by discussing you and how you came to found 21 and also with the side cart of also being at Andreessen so how did that all come about? And what's the kind of quick bio view?

Balaji Srinivasan  3:45  
Yeah, sure. So I'm I'm a Stanford lifer. I got my Bs, MS and PhD in electrical engineering and Ms in chemical engineering, all from Stanford. And I taught computer science and statistics at Stanford for a few years. And I started a genomics company called Council, which was funded by Peter teal and Founders Fund and David Drummond and whatnot. And that was in 2008. Funding came in, like 2011. So, you know, we had a long period of, you know, effectively bootstrapping it before, before we got VC on. And so I was my first company. And so my brother's running it, it's doing quite well. And so then after that, in 2013, and I did three things. So first, I helped set up 21. And at the time, in 2013, I was just in a part time role as chairman. So it wasn't full time operationally involved with the company, but I helped set it up initially, in the second I taught a MOOC course, which, you know, was that startup.stanford.edu is also on Coursera. And that eventually reached more than 250,000 students worldwide. So it's pretty popular. so popular course. And basically I think is because it, it fused technology and philosophy. So it talks about the of why you want to do a startup and whether you want to do a startup and various difficulties that arise, all the things that I wish I had known as a PhD student, you know, I knew how to do multi dimensional integrals of Gaussians. And, you know, like gradient descent and old math and whatnot. But what I didn't know is, you know, just basic kinds of concepts like positive gross margin, all the basic kind of business concepts that that you understand later, like, what's a high margin business, which a low margin business, all those kinds of things ever, like business one on one are things that to pick up on the fly after my first company, there are things that could easily be taught to PhD students, but just aren't. And so because of that, often people will complete a PhD, and then they'll try to commercialize their research, a little bit of market sizing at the beginning of their research, you could have on you know, at least allowed them to pick between two equivalently interesting research projects, one of which had a higher market potential as one example up to work on humans rather than so called fruit flies, if you're doing sequencing, because human sequencing has higher market size at the end, so that that course was the second thing I did in 2013. And it was sort of aimed at the five or 10 year earlier version of myself, where I didn't know how to do like production coding, and I didn't know how to do business, but I knew how to do math, and it was targeted at that kind of person. And it proved to be like super popular and and then the third thing I did was I joined interested in hearts as a general partner, and the focus in Bitcoin and biomedicine and online education. And basically, the areas that are the interface between software and the physical world, you know, the legacy industries. So that was basically what I did in 2013. And then over 2014, I was a full time VC and Photoshop for 2015. That was as well. And then in mid 2015, I took over 21, so I'm printing it as CEO, since then, in went to a part time role in intrapreneur. That's where I'm still, you know, helping with diligence and deals and doing investments, but on like, a part time basis and full time to CEO 21.

Harry Stebbings  6:58  
And then I question them from Boris, at version one. Who asked what was it about joining Andreessen that made you want to leave the world of operations to join Andreessen? And then what was the transition in terms of moving back to 21? That made you so enticed to do that?

Balaji Srinivasan  7:14  
Yeah, good question. So I think like, the great thing about Pinterest and Horowitz is, it really is a vantage point from which you can see all the technology. If you're there, you learn very quickly, about a number of different industries, because you're basically seeing presentations from folks who are, you know, you don't necessarily invest in everybody, obviously, but you hear from some of the smartest people in different industries. So you get up to speed very quickly, in sectors that you may not have thought about before, for example, drones or you know, FinTech, you know, you learn what the problems are, after you see like several hundred decks, you actually have a really, really good global understanding of where technology is in a way that you just don't, if you're operating one company, where necessarily you need to have a telescopic focus on just on just one thing. So that was a, that was a big advantage in the second big thing was that, I think that I was, you know, fairly influential in, you know, talking to a bunch of VCs about the extent to which regulation was the primary barrier for many different kinds of businesses, because historically, Silicon Valley has been engaged with things which are related to, okay, build a faster hard drive or storage or what have you, right, like, things that would be considered purely technological issues related to just optimizing, like bandwidth or networking, Cisco type companies, you know, that type of stuff. Absolutely, yeah. And that's still a thing. And you know, there's going to be, you know, businesses that are built in that space continually. But what's happened over the last 510 years is that, you know, you've got businesses like Uber, Airbnb, things in genomics, things and drones, where you're starting to go and encounter the physical world. And in that case, was actually the main barrier is, it's not the technology because, you know, at this point, you know, web stacks are fairly well developed, your database isn't going to fall down, you know, your web server isn't going to fall down. The primary risk is actually regulatory risk evangelizing that point of view was basically my primary focus as as a VC for about two years. And I think it was moderately successful in that, for example, if you think about Uber and Airbnb in 2009, if you were an investor, it would have been a remarkable thing to say that 100 billion dollars in equity value is being held back by outdated taxi and hotel regulations. Absolutely. Yeah. That's actually what was true. Right? And, and maybe it's more than 100 billion, like, you know, that's just something Uber and Airbnb, you know, they're not at their terminal values. I think it's quite possible that those become multi hundred billion dollar companies. And so you're talking about, like, the next big thing, it was being held back by regulations that were, you know, 78 years old, that very, very few people were thinking about, and the reason it's so remarkable, it's hard to understand, you know, what is unseen. So I don't know if you've heard of the, you know, philosopher named Basquiat.

Harry Stebbings  10:03  
I haven't, but you're teaching me so please do.

Balaji Srinivasan  10:06  
Okay, right. So So Frederic Bastiat has this parable and you can Google it. It's called, you know what a scene and what is unseen. And the basic premise is that it requires, you know, sort of more empathy and more imagination to think about the value that isn't seen, right, like you can see a skyscraper, you can't see what would have been built, if you know, the building regulations have allowed skyscrapers to be built in two weeks, rather than two years. And that's not a theoretical example. By the way, if you Google, you can see in China, there's skyscrapers that they're literally building in, like, you know, two weeks flat. And I mean, literally two weeks from, you know, they put a camera there, and they build 24 hours a day, and they prefab all the material, and they snap it together on site. And so you're talking about, like building 100 x faster than you can build in the US, which means they can put an entire city together in like, you know, a month or so. And, and that's just qualitatively different from what's happening in the US where it takes, you know, I know this is an exceptional case, but it takes 10 years to go and rebuild the World Trade Center. So the reason that kind of thing is important is it's unseen, the innovation on that you would have without that regulation. But what's happening now, which is really interesting is you're starting to get more and more global diversification regulatory regimes. And so you can now see the unseen if you look overseas, if you look at other jurisdictions, you can see what we would have had if these obsolete rules would not be in place. So that's something I think about a lot is, you know, the unseen. And what was unseen in 2009 was Uber and Airbnb. And that was just taxi and hotel regulations, which people don't really think of as being, you know, mission critical. So then that leads to the next really interesting follow up question, which is, if the state level regulations on taxis and hotels, were holding back, you know, 100 billion dollars. And by the way, that's just not that's not just like money for VCs, obviously, that is money for society, right? Like, Uber and Airbnb are capturing, you know, a good chunk of that value, but it's incalculable. How much time has been saved in parking, how many, you know, how many?

Harry Stebbings  12:01  
How many employees are paid?

Balaji Srinivasan  12:03  
Yeah, how many employees are paid, and not just employees crucially, like these are, there's all these drivers and all these hosts, like there's hundreds of thousands, if not millions of people who have made money from Uber and Airbnb in an economy, which hasn't yet like performed for everybody. So it's it, there's absolutely the employees themselves, but the but there's also like the larger marketplace. And so then you get to really large scale. So a lot of utility has been created there. So it's not just like, Oh, you know, VC returns, such as one order of magnitude estimate, which is undeniable that the rest of it is probably on the order of a trillion dollars in value that's being created on if you were to compare it to what happened before. So then things get really interesting, if you say, Okay, if that was just taxi and hotel regulations, what is the FDA holding back? What's the FAA holding back? Let's sec holding back, what are what are these, you know, regulators were, you know, they're well intentioned, but literally, the laws are often written, you know, 100 years ago, right? The FDA is and you know, ancestor was started in 1906. On the SEC got much of its powers after you know, the the Great Depression, we're starting like two, three generations ago. That's pretty technology. That's, that's like several technology generations. And it's quite possible that you can achieve many of the objectives of these regulatory agencies with new technology in a better way. And as an example, again, I'd go to like Uber and Lyft, Airbnb, where if you look at their review system, you're talking about real time star ratings, and you're talking about reviews of both the buyer and the seller that are updated, you know, on a on a base kick per second or per ride or per state basis. And that's just much more responsive as a regulatory system, then every six months, or every year evaluation of a taxi medallion or hotel license, where you just don't have the same level of digital precise feedback between buyer and seller. And if you're a bad actor, you're banned from the platform within like, you know, a few hours if you're, you know, an Uber driver, or that Uber rider says the same thing to protecting both sides. So you're accomplishing the goals of a regulated marketplace, in the sense that you're a banning bad actors and be giving low stars to poor quality actors, without the curse of aspects, right. So you know, essentially your tool as the as a market operator marketplace operator is you can ban people or give them low star ratings, you don't actually have to send the police to you know, raid and shut down a bad hotel or, or, you know, throw somebody in jail for running a taxi that licensed to spam them for the platform, no muss, no fuss, and yet you achieve the same objectives. And then I think another really important component, the customer can have a choice between different regulatory regimes. That's to say they can hit a button and they can choose Uber or they can hit a button or they choose left. And the reason that choice is important is right now in order to choose between different taxi regulatory regimes, you actually have to physically migrate from say, New York City to Texas, it's a bundle deal, or you have a bundle of regulations that are given x y location, your taxi regulations, your hotel regulations are this or that and unbundling of regulatory regimes such that you don't have to buy them on moss i think is going to be just as important as unbundling of, you know, television channels or what have you, such that you could just pick on a car. So this is kind of how I think a lot about unlocking this value that's being held back by these these really antiquated laws

Harry Stebbings  15:11  
and three really interesting questions that kind of come from that unpacking. And the first is, then to what extent you agree with that archetype or notion of kind of Silicon Valley marketplaces like Uber and Airbnb have move fast and break things, do you think that is the right approach?

Balaji Srinivasan  15:24  
Yes, you don't get plane flights, you don't get you don't get aviation. Without test pilots, you know, we have to have early adopters, if we allow people to do bungee jumping and skydiving, if we allow people to sign up for the military and, you know, go in, and like die overseas, you know, there should also be room for people who take risks to advanced technology, if you go back. And you know, there's this thing called the CRC Handbook of chemistry and physics, if you go and read that, and this is basically what there was before, you had like, you know, Wikipedia and online encyclopedia of chemistry, if you go back and look at the, you know, CRC Handbook of chemistry and physics, it will have for some of the really old compounds, it will have, like a smell and the taste there. And for the newer compounds, it doesn't have that. Because all the way back in the past, there was some chemist who, you know, smelled cyanide, and the last thing he did was, he took a hit for the team, and he scroll down, and they die. And, you know, he took a hit for the team to advance science, right. And, you know, I'm speaking somewhat tongue in cheek, obviously. But the point is that there was a time when chemists would actually like smell and taste things. And that from that library, we have, you know, the the compounds where, you know, you build all the flavors and stuff that are in your chocolates, or whatever. And so today, you just don't have the same level of risk tolerance. And so because of that, you know, people want to have like an extremely high level of safety on everything. And there's a point at which too much conservativeness on that, like, being too conservative on safety actually leads to systemic risk. Because, you know, you stick with the current system, you stick with the current system, you stick with the current system, you don't take a risk. And then what happens is, you don't test out a new plane. And so because of that, like, you lose, I don't know, millions of man years of time, which is basically lives due to like having slower air travel, right? That's just one example. Another great example, even more direct, is something related to new medicines, right? You know, unless there's some people, there's gonna be somebody who's the first person to try a surgery, or somebody who's the first person to try a drug, and that person is taking the risk. And if that risk pays off, we'll you know, their hero, and they should get like awards and prizes and whatnot. I mean, we should incentivize that. Because without that risk taking, like, you don't have hundreds of thousands of people get a cure. And so that's kind of a second really important thing is, so first is, you know, you think about, okay, what are these laws holding back? And second, you think about, okay, how can we carve out jurisdictions where you can actually have early adopters, the same concept of early adopters on the internet, you apply it to things where there's some degree of physical risk, you know, you know about that going in, that this person may, you know, suffer injury or even die heroic death, just like, you know, many of the pilots who basically built modern aviation, but you know, that going in, and you know, either way, this person gets the same sort of, you know, social credit that we extend to folks who served overseas in the military, or whatnot. And certainly, it's, I think, more socially adventurous and bungee jumping, or skydiving, which is

Harry Stebbings  18:06  
risk without reward. Do you really think that's the solution that in terms of carving out allocations for early adopters? Or do you prefer the radical overhaul of potentially an archaic regulatory system,

Balaji Srinivasan  18:16  
so I'm definitely on the first and the reason I say that is, it's hard to convince people of what is unseen, they'll just hear radical overload the regulatory system, and then they're gonna just gonna resist it, they're gonna say, oh, you're very dangerous, etc, I think that everything depends upon being able to opt out and build parallel systems, where some of them are going to be failures, but some of them are going to be successes and the successes, you youtubed them, and you videotape them, and you show that it wasn't so bad, and you broadcast it to the world. And that's what gets you the political capital to start flipping other cities. So let me give you a concrete example. So right now you have since 2016, today, right? So Austin, Texas, has chosen to take itself back into the past into 2012, or what have you into a pre ride sharing era, okay. But Pittsburgh, in Pennsylvania has chosen to go into the future into 2020, or 2021. And allowing self driving cars, right. And Pittsburgh is running an experiment. And that experiment is going to be highly scrutinized. And there's going to be, you know, a lot of people who have high stakes and making sure it's a success, if it's done, right. And if it's videotaped, and IT folks can travel to that region, and they can see that, hey, actually come on in the water's warm. It's actually not so bad. In fact, it's actually pretty good. Well, now you've got this early adopter zone, you've got what I call a special Innovation Zone. And from that experiment, other jurisdictions can adapt on so you don't try to force the change on the entire system at once. Instead, you focus all your energy on carving out one sufficiently, you know, like, it doesn't have to be huge, but sufficiently large zone where you can prove it out. It can't be like a tiny town of 10 people because you won't have the liquidity for, you know, the ride sharing back and forth, but it could just be a zone where, you know, the future is legalized. And as long as you've got that zone and you've got a commitment to actually see through the experiment that's own given that, you know, There might be some risks, there might be in the example self driving cars, there might be some crashes, there might be some bugs on given that the folks there understand what they're getting into, well, then that's knowledge that the rest of the world can then use. And if it succeeds, and they can adapt the regulatory

Harry Stebbings  20:12  
regimes, the consumer education policy interesting for me, because I'd say that is a more prominent barrier than actually regulatory problems. So what is then juicy consumer education in both? You know, we've got ride sharing, we've got Bitcoin, how does that play a role in terms of putting up a barrier to entry for the mass proliferation of both autonomous cars and Bitcoin? Really?

Balaji Srinivasan  20:32  
Yeah, good question. So so like consumer education can mean different things. It can mean showing people how to use the technology. And it can also mean, you know, basically showing people that the, like, deregulated or whatever prefer really is like regulation 2.0 technologies are actually better, right? And the reason I say regulation 2.0 is Uber is a more closely regulated marketplace and the taxi medallion system, it's harder to abuse it right. It's actually better at achieving the aims of the early 20th century progressives, then this antiquated system, right? So it's not deregulated, it's regulated better. So one answer is, like, in terms of just show it being successful in a jurisdiction. And the second thing is, you have to actually have an application, which is useful enough that people decide to educate themselves about it. And so for certain things like drones, you know, it starts with a toy. I think with Bitcoin, it started with speculation, different industries are gonna have different things that like incentivize that first group of a million or 10 million people to get educated on. And then the goal is to try to scale it fast enough, that the law, you know, doesn't like inadvertently, or unfortunately, advertently, ban the future.

Harry Stebbings  21:40  
And then I do want to dive into a quick fire round with you now. So I say a short statement, and you hit me with your immediate thoughts about does that sound? Okay? Sure. So let's start with your favorite book and why

Balaji Srinivasan  21:50  
I've got two. So I really like the Yeah, so Princeton companion to mathematics. That is, if you were in solitary confinement, that is the one book that I want. Because it's basically all of math, it's by this guy, Timothy Gower's, who is a fields medalist and extremely good editor and writer, that that kind of book is the kind of book you can just spend endless hours on, you can keep going back to it, you'll always learn something. So you know, that's, that's basically my number one from like, a technical standpoint, you know, from sort of like a philosophical standpoint, I'd recommend the sovereign individual. So that's something that I've, you know, tweeted about and whatnot. But, you know, many, many non technical books are things where you can summarize like 300 pages, and essentially, you know, one thesis statement. And the thing about the sovereign individual that's interesting is you can take actually, the reverse, like one paragraph or one sentence is so deep there that you could expand it into a whole book. It's actually the kind of non technical book that I actually read and reread with a pen and paper next to it to try to expand the sentences and extract the meaning and implications from it. So those are the two books where I think like have the highest strength to weight ratio. So it's a tie, so it's not one

Harry Stebbings  22:55  
and then Tesla, is it going to be a market winner or that too much capital requirements from the public market?

Balaji Srinivasan  23:01  
a really good question. Well, short version is, I wouldn't bet against Elon Musk. And I think he's proven the naysayers wrong enough times that, you know, it's something where I would not take the other end of that bet. And I think what he's doing is very interesting, the longer version is it's in, there's at least two models to doing innovation on a really, really ambitious scale, and they put the Paladin in The Dark Knight, you know, the Paladin takes some sort of thing, which is extremely popular and tries to make it profitable. So Alon is taking something like, you know, solar power, or electric cars, where there's been, you know, a lot of popularity for it, you know, as manifested, for example, the fact that there's all these tax credits, etc. And he's trying to actually make that you know, capitalistic Li feasible, right. And so his danger is really, it's not getting banned, his danger is going bankrupt, right. And then the flip side of that is what I call it, The Dark Knight. And so the Dark Knight would be like Uber or early PayPal, or you take something where the market popularity of it or the market demand for it is unquestionable, there's people who want to buy it, you will get transaction after transaction, but it annoys enough people that it's not immediately popular in the same way. And so here the name of the game, you're not gonna go bankrupt, because your demand is so high, but you might get banned. And so those are kind of like, you know, two different models to try and doing innovation on a large scale. And so the peldon has to get to profitability. And the Dark Knight has to get to a certain level of popularity, such that they neither go ban, go bankrupt nor get banned.

Harry Stebbings  24:34  
Yeah. Good. What's your favorite blog or newsletter, I'd love to hear your reading habits in terms of kind of industry knowledge and insider reading.

Balaji Srinivasan  24:42  
So I read a lot of old books, and I don't actually read, I read like old books, and I read a lot of technical journals. Obviously, you know, you sort of keep up with tech news in your peripheral vision by simply looking at the Twitter feed of folks, right, but I'm less focused on the contemporary stuff and more fun on things which are true yet not widely known on so let me give you one example like, you know, Brian chesky at Airbnb is fond of, you know, a bunch of articles written in the late 1800s, early 1900s. about these, I forget what they're called, I think they're like not flop houses. But basically, room sharing was just much more popular around the turn of the century than it was in the mid 1900s. Like 1950, you had the nuclear family. But in 1900, you had lots of people who were moving to cities, and they do room sharing. And so you could see sort of societal solutions for a sharing economy type things from 100 years ago, that he could modernize and transplant and use for today. And I think that that's a very useful thing to read books about societal arrangements, at other times, and places, especially because I think in many ways, our future is more like our past, that's to say, you know, 2030, I think will be more similar to 1870, than it will to 1950. And in many ways, like 1950 was sort of a peak centralization point. And either side is like a mirror image, where you start to get more and more decentralized as you go another direction. So so old books are one big component. And the second is technical journals. And technical journals are another source of as yet finally underappreciated truth. So if you read, you know, the biomedical journals, you will actually see, for example, that life extension, and youth extension for mice is much more advanced. And people think, you know, you can do things with, for example, brain machine interface, that's much more advanced than, you know, the general public realizes. You can actually have mice, for example, telepathically control devices, you can you can do fantastic things with regeneration, all these things are things where, you know, the technology is there, just not really understood by people that it's being held back by, for example, the FDA, or, you know, just a lack of distribution. And so those are the kinds of things that I read, as opposed to news, which is sort of get by default, simply by peripheral vision,

Harry Stebbings  26:53  
and from kind of mouse and mortality to Walker. Thoughts on Walker's demise. happy, sad. devastated. What is it? What is the take on this one,

Balaji Srinivasan  27:03  
where long overdue, I think that, you know, without getting into a lot on that, like, they put a lot of people out of business, they attacked a lot of people, their basic business model was to try to destroy somebody's reputation for $5 in clicks. You know, the thing about that is, you know, that reputation was much more valuable to the person, you know, then than $5. So they're basically like Joker like sociopaths. When you talk about clickbait business model, the goal is to maximally distort what somebody's saying, such the headline is almost unbelievable, but has some like very, very narrow connection of

Harry Stebbings  27:37  
insecurity.

Balaji Srinivasan  27:38  
Exactly some semblance like, it's like a massive distortion of what actually happened. But there's at least enough that it's not like some interpretation might say, it's not a flat out lie, to get to the absolute boundary of flat line. But they had like some defensibility, where maybe 51% of people would say, it's not a flat out lie, even a 49%. Two, and then they get to the level of Oh, my God, that's unbelievable. And what's unbelievable, is retweeted, and it's circulated, and so they have an incentive to play this game of brinksmanship but the truth and frankly, I think that most of time go over that, because they have absolutely no incentive to tell the truth, they have an incentive for clicks. It's very different from Silicon Valley, where, you know, one of the things that, you know, VC has many, many faults, but there's a couple of things I think, are really interesting about it. And one of the biggest is that a VC is very interested in whether they were rock, you know, pass in a series a company, and then it's successful and it becomes a Series B company, will you want to understand a why you're wrong. And B, you want to admit that you're wrong and potentially invest in it. And so there's actually a financial incentive for truth in a way that's unusual in other other places, right? Like in politics, there's almost no incentive to you know, if you've heard like michael kinsley saying, like, a gap is when a politician tells the truth like there's there's basically no incentive to tell the truth that annoys your coalition, you know, a truth that means your coalition suffers financial disadvantage as a truth best not told in politics. So So VC is really incentivized for truth in a really fundamental way. And, you know, their thing is VC is incentivized to build people up. What I mean by that is, as an investor, you want to invest in somebody and make them richer than yourself. Example, Peter Thiel investing in the young Mark Zuckerberg put $500,000 into Zuckerberg to make, you know, hundreds of millions, maybe billions on that investment. But obviously, Zuckerberg did even better. And so it's a very unusual delete in the sense that VC is incentivized to make people richer than them to build people up. Right. And so like, both of those things are exactly the opposite. Like an investment in truth and investment in positive summit building people up are totally the opposite of that an institution is devoted to basically false it and tearing people down. So you can think of them as like, basically polar opposites. So I'm very happy that

Harry Stebbings  29:45  
the system took them down. Absolutely. And so pleased to hear such positive connotations to VC that, but I do want to finish today on a final question, and that's the next five years for you and for 21. What's the roadmap ahead and what's the vision going forward?

Balaji Srinivasan  29:58  
Oh, absolutely. So um, we Have something coming out. It's actually already in beta, which I think will hopefully be the first mainstream application digital currency. And essentially, what it means is that anywhere there's a phone, there's a job on, we have an application where you can load it. And unlike Twitter or Facebook, where you click buttons to make friends, it's an application where you can click buttons and make my

Harry Stebbings  30:18  
Balaji thank you so much for coming on the show today. As I said, I had so many wonderful things from so many people. That a huge thank you to you for coming on the show today. I really appreciate it.

Balaji Srinivasan  30:28  
Absolutely. Thank you very much every

Harry Stebbings  30:32  
now I want to say a huge thank you to Balaji for giving up his time state to be on the show and especially hunter hardy at matrix the intro state without which the episode would not have been possible. Now if you love the show state and would like to hear more from me then you can check out the amazing new blog mohito vc.com. Yes, I did say mohito vc.com is a Fred Wilson meets Freakonomics with a little hint of Sean Parker from time to time, I'd love to hear what you think of that. Or you can follow me on snapchat at h stubbings with two B's to see all things behind the scenes from startup pitches to VC offices to recording sessions. But before we leave, you stay as you know, fear anger, stress, anxiety, sleeplessness, they begin in your head but they can really wreck your life and meditation can help. And headspace is meditation Made Simple with a mountain of science showing the positive effects of meditation and mindfulness. And the headspace app provides guided meditations you can use whenever you want, wherever you want on your phone, computer or tablet, and they have sessions focused on everything from dealing with stress and anxiety, to eating healthier, I think I need that one sleeping better, might need that one too. And even being more creative and is 1% of your day that really does change the other 99 So download the headspace app and train your mind for a happier healthier life. And you can learn more headspace comm forward slash 20 Vc that's headspace.com forward slash 20 Vc and finally do no suffering silence from rubbish Wi Fi this weekend. Get Luma Luma is the world's first ever surround Wi Fi system and it brings speed security and control to your home network. It really is Wi Fi you love and unlike traditional races Luma comes in a pack of two or three sleep devices to place in different rooms around your home. The app thing guys use your a simple setup, and in just minutes. Luma creates a mesh network that works together to create an outrageously fast ultra secure surround Wi Fi network. And lastly, lumas app lets you easily see and control which devices users and content are on your network and Luma is perfect for anyone who wants to be able to stream in the family room to game in the playroom to conduct video conferencing in the office and much more all at the same time. So if you want to join me in the joy of experiencing incredible home Wi Fi, then simply head over to get loomer.com amazon.com bestbuy.com or you can even head into Best Buy stores in the US and buy them in person. As always I so appreciate your support. You can always email me Harry at the 20 minute vc.com and I cannot wait to bring you next week shows

Transcribed by https://otter.ai
