Unknown Speaker  0:00  
This is the Gartner hype cycle. Right? pretty famous chart, it will tell you, for instance, the growth of the internet, right? You at the beginning, we have 96 internet technologies like oh my god, Internet, and everybody gets excited. And then boom, Internet's not growing as fast as you want, everybody gets not excited anymore. But people figure out maybe there's something to this technology. And it comes back. Now, I want to bring up a second chart, which shows you bitcoins price, and Balaji, you were saying that there's some similarities here?

Unknown Speaker  0:31  
Yeah, I think I think Bitcoin is in one of probably several Gartner hype cycles that are going to continue to happen. There's, you know, even an earlier, boom and bust. And then, you know, people wrote off as dead and wired wrote an article on like, the, you know, the fall of Bitcoin. And then it came back in 2013. And now, you know, kind of came down and is hit, like, kind of a stable level. And there's just so much energy in things that are being built in the space that I think it is likely maybe if not the price for a while, but certainly the adoption is definitely going to increase.

Unknown Speaker  1:03  
Okay, so if I'm maybe overlaying this on to the growth of the internet, so we may be in that cycle, that sort of 2000 to 2003 timeframe when maybe people were less enthusiastic. But things like Facebook, were on the minds of entrepreneurs like Mark Zuckerberg, so question for you is what what's being built on Bitcoin? That's going to be the next Facebook right now?

Unknown Speaker  1:30  
Well, so there's exciting things are going to be built on it. I'm not sure if they'll look exactly like Facebook, but but with the high potential, I do think that there's at least two major wings of Bitcoin or friends, if you will, I think the one that has gotten the most attention up to this point is sort of Bitcoin as a financial instrument. Right? So money, Bitcoin is money. Yeah, exactly. So you know, the the stock symbol, the price, you know, BTC. And so that's like, you know, Bitcoin exchanges, that's buying large quantities of Bitcoin, infrequently, and holding it with the anticipation, the price will increase speculation, all that type of stuff. And that's, you know, getting banks involved, that's getting NASDAQ and all these guys into the mix. Right? So let's call that one wing of Bitcoin. Bitcoin is a financial instrument. And I think there's another wing of Bitcoin that's going to be opening up, you know, this year, and then in the next one or two years, and that's Bitcoin as a protocol. And so now you're talking about Bitcoin, not as, you know, kind of an instrument of speculation, where you bite in large quantities and, and use it very infrequently. But something where you're basically mining it in very small quantities out of the wall socket, turning power into digital currency, and then sending that for micropayments. Right. And so now, you know, something which can solve a lot of big problems, right. So for example, you know, just on stage recently, you had, you know, sorry, they're talking about ads, and adblock and the mystery are from Google from Google. That's right. Talking about ads, and how you know, the industry needs to figure out a way around adblock and a response to that. So we think micropayments is probably going to be a large part of the answer to that in the medium to long term.

Transcribed by https://otter.ai
