Unknown Speaker  0:04  
Hello, and welcome to the North Star. I'm your host David Pearl, and this is the North Star podcast. In each episode, we explore the intersection between different ideas, cultures and life philosophies. The guests are diverse, but they share profound similarities. They're guided by purpose driven by curiosity, and see the world with a unique lens. And in each episode, we get to dive into their hard earned wisdom and apply it to our lives. When I'm not recording podcasts. I write essays on my website perell.com. Send a weekly email newsletter called Monday musings, and run an online writing school called rite of passage. I hope you enjoy the show.

Unknown Speaker  0:50  
My guest today is Balaji Srinivasan, an angel investor and entrepreneur. When it comes to the future, he's the single most creative person I know.

Unknown Speaker  0:57  
Because he's so technical,

Unknown Speaker  0:59  
innovative and polymathic. talking to him is an experience unlike talking to anybody else I know, which is what I tried to replicate in this conversation. A little bit about biology. He's worked as the Chief Technology Officer at Coinbase, and a general partner at Andreessen Horowitz. In the world of academia, he holds a BS, MS and PhD in electrical engineering, and an MS in chemical engineering, and all those from Stanford University. He's also taught at Stanford where his online course has reached 250,000 students worldwide. This episode is a whirlwind through biologies interests. We started by talking about his production function. And we talked about what holding all those degrees from Stanford taught him about learning how he identifies talent, and what building and selling to companies for more than 100 million dollars, taught him about management. We also talked about apologies interest in genomics, how to reverse aging, and why living forever is the ultimate goal of technology. And at the end of the episode, we built off the ideas I talked about in my on line writing school called rite of passage, to talk about his plan to fund online writers with a project called media fund. So please enjoy my conversation with Balaji Srinivasan. Welcome to the podcast, the thing that I find very interesting about you is that you've straddled the world of tech and academia like few other people. What do you think that is? academia with your background with a BS and Ms a PhD? What did it all that teach you about studying and learning?

Unknown Speaker  2:42  
Well, I was a career academic, you know, for the first years of my career, and I thought I was actually going to be a professor at Stanford or MIT or something like that. And what did he show learning? Well, first is I did learn how to learn quickly. And the way that I learned technical content quickly, is I just start doing problems. I don't even read the text. And the reason until I have an issue. And the reason is that, especially in technical topics, often, if you know, for example, differential equations, or you know, statistics, or you know, Maxwell's equations or something like that, you can often jump into an area and just start calculating, and quickly run into a roadblock. And then you realize what you actually don't know, there's a great series of books on this called schaums outlines, they're like these yellow books from the early 2000s, where you can do like schaums outline, and prop billions to six or schaums outline of accounting. And it's amazing how many people have book learning of something, but you just give them schaums and ask them to do the first 10 problems in you know, accounting or something like that, you know, accounting is a little bit there's an aspect where it's not fully technical, it's, it's, it's related to the time and place you know, accounting treatments are, but like, you know, electricity and magnetism, you can give them something like this, and they may not be able to do it. Whereas for sure, somebody who can do those questions can explain to you how, you know, the equations work. So that's how I jumped in on technical topics is just go start doing problems.

Unknown Speaker  4:09  
How does your learning work differently when you're learning, technical learning versus more sort of Liberal Arts style learning? Whenever we talk, you seem pretty well versed in those things, too. What do you think the similarities and differences are?

Unknown Speaker  4:21  
I think that, um, with liberal arts style learning, you know, I actually only really got into it after I left school. Well, I shouldn't say that. I liked fiction. I liked reading fiction when I was in you know, college, but I really didn't care about politics or anything like that or, or history growing up in the 90s You know, it was into history or cared right. But I got into liberal arts as a way to win arguments. So what I mean by that is history is more most interesting backwards, you know, you go to Berlin for example, why is the city the way it is? Well, let me tell you about something called you know, the the Cold War and the Berlin Wall. Oh, had that happen. Okay. Then here's World War Two, how did that happen? And I think history is most interesting backwards, where you can understand how people got, you know, as constant in the positions they are today. And then it's relevant, right? You have a contemporary hook, you have some aspect of life experience on which to stick that, right. There's other people, for example, they're fascinated by things like hieroglyphics or the pyramids, and they want to understand the context of that. And that's also obviously legitimate, and that's interesting, but at least for me, I hook all of that stuff to a purpose, which is okay, for example, how best to run an organization? Well, you know, the philosophy of the ancients actually does have something to say about that. Because, you know, you're managing people, you're, you know, that there's, there's aspects of human nature that haven't changed in thousands of years. And it's worth knowing, but, you know, the, the, the great classic liberal arts, you know, curriculum has to say about that. And so from kind of a very pragmatic perspective, you get to apply philosophy, this is also similar to, you know, the founders of the US. That's why they had to learn all this philosophy and history and, you know, so on, because they were actually building a political system that's applied history, on a small scale, that's what building a company is, you're building, you know, set of rules that scale the executive at scale, the CEO, and those rules are like laws, but internal to the company, and there's penalties for, you know, breaking them or whatever and rewards for following them. And this is, in its own sense, similar, you know, to running a small city, or a large city appearing on how big the company gets.

Unknown Speaker  6:32  
It seems like there's a lot of people in technology, Paul Graham comes to mind Peter Thiel comes to mind, you come to mind, who would be academics and and in another life, like what you said, Why did you leave academia for tech, besides the obvious that the power law of wealth in tech is much higher than in academia? Is there anything else going on there?

Unknown Speaker  6:54  
So it's interesting, like, personally, I'm not, you know, money motivated. I know, there are people who are, but I basically wear the same t shirts that I wear in grad school, I don't own any cars or anything like that, when I look at money, as is, I look at money as a tool to build that which I can't buy, for example, Alon is doing SpaceX, because he can't buy a trip to Mars. And, you know, yeah, you can have all the money in the world, you can't buy a trip to Mars, just like you know, 200 years ago, you could be the richest man in the world, but you couldn't buy an iPhone. Right? And so that's what I care about. And I also care about mathematics, you know, in the sense of, in the year 3000, as a metric for whether civilization is advanced, we might all just be uploaded artificial intelligences, or whatever. At that point. I think a useful civilizational ruler, is what mathematical problems can that civilization solve? Why, and that's not why is that? Yeah, it's not intuitive. So the reason is that if you're really good at math, in the year 3000, for example, you would have computers, right? So you would have the infrastructure required to support computers, you'd have enough the civilization that people can focus on, you know, higher level things, you'll hopefully be enough at peace, that people will be able to focus on that type of thing. And mathematics is cumulative. So that if you can, you know, do differential geometry, you can, you can do differential equations, right? And so because of that, it's it's this kind of, Oh, it's also something that space time invariant, right? Or at least so we think the Math Math should be spatially invariant physics may may vary in space at least like like that's a physical law might be different. I don't know a billion miles away so far doesn't look like that. But but might be so because of those properties, right? Like it's it's not dependent on specific civilization. You know, the Incas, the Aztecs, the Zulus, the Parsis, every every group on the planet has the same math, right? That's the past and the present and the future. So when it's universal, right, you know, to is it's hierarchical, it's cumulative. So you've got a ruler, a ladder, whereas for example, fashion, we couldn't say if we progressed in fashion, right, fashion is just cyclical fashion is what people think is, is cool at any given moment. And that's a function of just preference at that time, whether it's, you know, hoop skirts, or Victorian clothing or whatever, right. So a math is universal be its cumulative in hierarchal See, implicitly, it says, You're at peace, you've got a supply chain, you're focused on higher things, you've got computers, you've got whatever comes after computers, maybe it's brain machine interface, or something like that, that allows us to compute all this stuff. Just to give you an example, just the massive math programmers know. So there's a thing this is something I've thought about a lot. I think cryptocurrencies will actually help us with this. But think the internet is really under exploited for collaborative work. Okay. So there's a thing 10 years ago now, it was called a polymath project, where mathematician research mathematician named I think it was either William Gower's or Terry towel. Both of them are fields medalists, maybe as both of them but the polymath project. Essentially posed an unsolved math problem, and just ask people to sort of collaboratively solve it on a block. And it worked. You know, it's not something that you would imagine would work, because you might think isn't, you know, math, sort of like basketball where, you know, there's LeBron, who's really good. And you know, no one else is going to score like LeBron. So how would you know when the best mathematician in the world get help from the crowd? You might argue that right. And certainly, you know, the terms that they were using were accessible only to a small group of specialists. Still, collectively, that group was actually able to make serious progress and able to solve this. And that's something where use the internet to put a lot of brains together a synchronously, right, you couldn't have had a conference going on for months and months and months, and having all those people in one spot, all those folks who could work on it, they could sleep, drink coffee, and you know, they contribute, oh, this little snippet, or they had this bad idea, right. And the bad idea would not be worthy of publishing. In a manuscript. It's just an offhand comment. Oh, do you think about frob indicating this or whatever? You know, that's a made up for it. But you know what I'm saying, right. And so his offhand comments that weren't publication grade that weren't making, you know, an air airline trip for that you didn't know the person you didn't know Terry Tao well enough to like, call them up and say those actually got surfaced and integrated into something. And broadly speaking, it's actually kind of interesting how little collaborative work is done on the internet. I mean, we have Wikipedia. That's one of the great ones. There's, there's obviously GitHub with open source. There's Google Docs, you might say, well, that that is a lot of collaborative work. And I agree. But I think there's so much more that can be done, why aren't there more things like Google Docs, where you can collaborate in real time and see the thing coming together? You know, you can see people fighting in Kwazii, real time on Twitter. But you know, you can't just see them building things together. And that's partially because the division of labor is challenging, rewards are challenging. You know, approval of digital work is challenging, all the type of stuff, but I think that with cryptocurrencies and other kinds of things, you might be able to get there where you incentivize tasks for sub units. Anyway. So that's one last aspect recursing back up the stack. To do something like the polymath project, you need civilization. And that's also something that's hierarchical.

Unknown Speaker  12:06  
It's funny, I feel like your answer there with a polymath project speaks to the next question I want to ask. And, like, whenever we talk, I feel like, I have more links per minute with you than anyone else I know. And it has to do with the way that you think and the best I can describe it is you sort of think in hyperlinks, you're like a high context thinker, probably more than anyone I know. And it honestly, it kind of makes it annoying to talk to him, because I can't actually get up the stack of like, what is needed sometimes what's going on there and how you think your brain works.

Unknown Speaker  12:45  
I think it said, I tried to store the minimum amount of information and uncompacted. So you know, when I'm talking to somebody on something like this, you know, I may do it verbally, like we're talking now. But the reason you know, what is the link? What is the citation? What is a reference? references, reinforcements. What it means is, it's not just you who's thinking this, here's this person, and all these people who have reviewed this piece of paper. And that's actually 50 people you bring with you, and they're all research mathematicians, right? Oh, and that actually represents 50,000 people. So arguing from references is summoning reinforcements to any discussion. So again, it's about like, okay, you know, like, why do you learn history to win arguments? Right? Why do you argue from references again, to win arguments? Because it's not you, it's You and what army? It's this army of scholars?

Unknown Speaker  13:34  
Hmm. Let's move into talent you've sold to companies for more than 100 million dollars, what have you learned about gathering, recruiting and identifying up and coming talent?

Unknown Speaker  13:48  
up and coming is a very important component of it. Roy has a good saying which I sort of get through boy, which I sort of kind of independently come up with in a somewhat different phrasing his his phrasing is higher genius is no one knows yet. Right. And mine was sort of hungry and can teach us something, you know, and everyone has different, like versions of this right? But hungry and can teach us something is basically like, Okay, you've got somebody who is at the beginning of their career, right. And one thing I found that, at least, I'm wired for, and a lot of other people are not wired for, is, I'm almost, I shouldn't say, anti credential, because I understand the value of it. But I'm actually most excited when I see a smart person who does not have that credential. Because that's a good trade. Right? I can hire them, I can pay them reasonably well. I can help them level up I can give them essentially the biggest opportunity they've ever had in their lives. You know, and you know, I say that in the sense of like, I'm not trying to thump my chest or anything like that. But But I have recruited people out of the middle of nowhere. You know, folks, like living with their parents in Canada, folks in Malaysia, folks in Poland, people who are truly in the middle of Nowhere, and because I could see that they could code well, or write well, or both, I would just pluck them off the internet. And I didn't care if they had an accent or anything like that they were smart people, right? And often they had some personal circumstance where, you know, this, this person could out code and outwork lots of the folks who had the perfume degrees from, you know, Harvard or Stanford or whatever, right? And I'm not saying By the way, the people at Harvard, Stanford are dumb. I'm not saying anything like that. But from a price performance standpoint. Right? What you want is, you know, as Roy says, The genius is no one knows yet, right? And it's also something where by giving somebody the biggest opportunity they've ever had, they're hungry. Right? And, and, you know, the other bit like, Why can they teach us something? Well, if I learn something from their writing, if I learn something from you know, their code, you know, their writing is actually pretty important getting to something that you talked about, because, you know, especially today, when you're moving to remote, everything, the way that you engage with somebody is do they write clearly, for example, did they write stuff like a mystery novel, where you have to kind of listen for a while before figuring out what they're saying? Or do they put the headline first, right. And of course, it's different between casual conversation versus writing something for instructions, right, you'd write it, then you pull it to the beginning. And it's like you communicate in the headline, then you communicate it again, in the subtitle, you command again, in a slightly different way in the opening sentence in the opening paragraph. And it's like this Russian doll thing where, you know, at least that's a new style of writing, you know, and, and that's how you should write internal memos. That's how you should write slacks is most important first, right? So basically, I look for folks that are like that, that are underpriced relative to their potential, and I try to level them up. Now, the issue with doing that, by the way, here's actually an important tip on that is the most challenging thing to do as an entrepreneur. But it's also absolutely necessary, is to hire people who are better than you.

Unknown Speaker  16:53  
Okay, why is that? First? Why is it necessary? Well, let's say you're getting into robotics, okay? You may not know robotics, but you need to find somebody who will do the job better than you could when you're, you know, if you were doing it. And the reason is, if it's much worse than you could have done, then you'll basically look at it and you'll constantly like, Ah, you know, I, I finally had the time, I could get in there and fix this thing. And if there's high stakes for the customers, and if you have the power to do it, you feel dragged in that direction, where if you hire someone who can't do the job better than you, can you feel that you should do the job. Okay. However, why is it hard to find such a person? Well, obviously, if somebody is better than you in this skill, why would they want to work for you or work for your company? Right? And so the answer I've come up with on that is thinking of skill as a vector, right? You may be worse at robotics, but you're better at mathematics or, you know, like, like programming or something like that. And so then you go to that person as essentially, at least the way I think of it is like an academic peer. And you say, Look, you're a disciplinary expert in robotics. I'm not a 10 or a nine like you are, but I have, you know, done the equivalent of schaums outlines, right, I have self studied, and I've gotten my way to a six, right, I can tell you what you know, degrees of freedom are, I can tell you how you know, manipulators work and the basic sensors and actuators. I know something of the problems in your field. And so I've done my homework. And what happens is somebody who's a nine in that area, is actually pretty impressed. If somebody has put in the work to at least learn the basic vocabulary of their space. It's always like, not bad, right? For example, if you're if you're an engineer, and there's someone who's self taught, and maybe their code isn't like well structured, or whatever, but they've managed to get a data analysis together and make some graphs and charts, you know, and scrape some stuff. You're always like, okay, that person is resourceful. I respect that, you know, okay, let me talk to this person. And then if you have strengths in another area, well, then there's an ongoing trade of knowledge. All right. And again, this is how I like to recruit, you know, money is important. It's an important tool, it has to be there, you know, it has, it's a powerful thing for alignment. And so and I'm not against money. But fundamentally, what I look for in the folks who we we hire, if I hire people are folks where I can learn from them. And hopefully, I can teach them something, you know, so so you really learn something you level up in your skills. And so that vector way of thinking about skills is a way that you can hire somebody better than you because they're better than you in one or a few critical key areas. Hopefully, you're better in some other areas. And then there's a mutual positive some exchange over the course of relationship. By the way, speaking of the course of relationship, I think, Reid Hoffman's concept of a tour of duty is useful, because, you know, like, like a company is not a family, right? This is a family's about like, you know, unconditional love or whatever, right? You know. Not to say that's bad. Just just you know, that's not that's not how a company is the company is conditional love. Since you have to deliver on their hand. It's a company's also, it shouldn't be mercenary. Because it's mercenary. You know, look, everybody has a bad day everybody has bad, you know, we get time, sometimes even a bad month or something like Corona. Like, you know, of course these are, you know, our fellow coworkers and you have to have some mercy and so on as well, right? Even if the customer doesn't, because the customer like you don't care whether someone had a bad day, Coca Cola is plant you just, oh, wow, why is this bottle crushed? Okay, I'm just gonna buy the Pepsi. It's not out of malice or anything like that. It's just like the interface you're seeing is not a human, you're seeing a crushed can or something, you know, there's a failure somewhere in the supply chain. So you shrug and just pick the other thing, right? So the customer is genuinely merciless. So you have to somehow buffer that. And I think the intermediate is this concept of the tour of duty, where you say, look, here's what I'm going to try to give you. Also, I think it's also useful, by the way for folks to write out what their goals are. Right? Where do they want to be in a year or three years? Wait, no,

Unknown Speaker  20:57  
that's obvious. So like, yeah, is it? Are you saying that because people don't do it? Are you saying it? Because it's undervalued? Are you saying it because you have some different insight into this? Like, you know, this feels like something that my dad would tell me, I'm like, right before I go to college, or something that like, thanks, Uncle Tom. So like, What are you trying to say here?

Unknown Speaker  21:13  
Yeah, so what your dad is telling you is actually non obvious and good. You may have internalized that already. Right? But, but basically writing out what your goals are, it's amazing how many people don't do that. And the thing about it is, it's not literally that you think about it every moment, but by writing out what your goals are, so many people just random walk through life. And there's something else that's important. This gets into like management and whatnot. Right. But basically, before somebody joins, if they write out what they would consider a success, like, you know, for example, Bull bear and bass. So the bull case, the bear case, in the base case, right? So bull bear base is a useful thing to do, where you kind of have folks right out, and this is a for themselves, like, what would be good, would be amazing, and what would be a fail in four years, right? And basically, it's actually always fun to look back on this stuff. And four years later, right? And you're like, wow, I was so often these things, and I was dead on on this right? point being that by doing that, they self constrain, and they actually take some responsibility for their own life, right. And this is the same thing where you know, whenever you're dividing up labor, at the junction point between a manager and employee, right, you should do a two by two table, which is, what do the manager expect from themselves? What do they expect from the employee? What is the employee expect for themselves was the employee expect from the manager? Okay? That two by two table is so simple. But you should do that at every one on one. And you should do one one on one a week. And what it does, is it rectifies miscommunication. And by putting into words, what you expect of yourself and the other person, you're holding yourself accountable in front of them, just like they are holding their self accountable in front of you. And both of you know what you expected from the other. If a week later, or two weeks later, or three weeks later. I mean, look, everybody doesn't always hit everything, there's new things come up. It's not meant to be like, you know, signed in blood thing. But that two by two table, if you track that in a simple Google Doc, right? Over time, it's super useful. Because it also as a manager allows you to point back and say, Hey, we agreed on this at this time, or I did deliver what you asked me and the employees can do the same. It's like, Hey, you can't say that I didn't deliver because I did do this or that. I'm not saying it as an adversarial thing. But it is something which is it's useful to keep aligned. Right? And so that's what I mean, like this concept of, you know, write out what your goals are. Your Uncle Tom, or your dad is a smart guy. So,

Unknown Speaker  23:44  
so last question about personal productivity. But it's another very biology thing. I feel like you very purposefully live in the future. And I, like you actually make certain decisions. Like, we were together, we had dinner in San Francisco, and it was like 11 o'clock at night. You're like, Oh, I'm just going to Hotel Tonight. And then I'm going to Uber to the, to the hotel, and then sort of figure it out. And I was sort of just watching that. I was just like, Man, this is it's not like Hotel Tonight, Uber so futuristic. But like a menu of your decisions. And sort of the options that you give yourself are very mobile first things that I think people will be living in 10 to 15 years.

Unknown Speaker  24:26  
Right, right. Right. So So why is that? I thought about that. And it just so happens in some sense that my preferences and way of life, like the world has become more like me over the last 20 or 30 years. This is not something that I could like I feel really bad for somebody who is a morning person is extremely nine to five wants a routine. doesn't like computers, wants to come into the office every day and you know, high five Be like, essentially the kind of person that the 1950s was built around, and nothing against that person, okay, that's perfectly fine person makes the world go round, in many ways, super reliable, like daily kind of kind of person, right? That like morning person type mentality is just the opposite way the world is going, it's going from synchronous to asynchronous, it's going from in person to remote, it's going from, like, pull the same lever 1000 times to think deeply and then write a piece of code that just does it. It's going from, like, like, essentially, the centralized century to a decentralized century, in many, many ways, all the stuff that I have been into, it's just a predictor of, you know, just just by my nature, I seem to gravitate to this stuff. For example, machine learning in genomics at Stanford, in in the early 2000s, was something I thought was, I shouldn't say old hat. But machine learning was something I'd been doing for years by 2006. Right. And, you know, to my surprise, 10 years later, everybody's talking about concept. Like, I mean, of course, there's new developments in it, of course, there's deep neural networks, there's a reason that people are talking about it and whatnot. But it was it was interesting to me to see people like, oh, the gradient, like, yeah, gradient. Okay. You know, and, and so that was something I had to calibrate on just just to give you a few examples of this machine learning genomics, robotics, like that was, you know, we built a clinical genomics lab that had robots in it in the early, you know, 2010s profitable things like, you know, obviously promote work, Soylent, Bitcoin, you know, would teleport rebuilt a search engine for digital nomads, that was a little too early had, you know, it was great, great company, actually many ways, but had that, you know, been around in 2020, or would have had probably millions of users just given how many people are still searching for that, right. So that, you know, we set that up in 2014, that sold that in 2016, or 2017. So you know, so digital nomadism, remote work, startup cities, exit, like all the stuff we've been talking about in terms of physical exit from a location, when I gave this talk at Y Combinator in 2013, talking about Silicon Valley's ultimate exit, it's happening dot jpg, you know, we are literally physically exiting all the moving trucks are here, we have decentralized into the cloud, we're finally achieving our destiny of becoming this digital people like 2020 is a year the internet starts. And I mean, there's 50, other things like that, but, but even something like Soylent why because I want it to be maximally productive I want it to be is to be able to sit and you know, have like something nutritious, and then just be able to work all day. And so the thing about it is that the nine to five person wants to work at a defined period of time consistently, and then go home and then go and, you know, do sports or whatever, right? And that's fine. Nothing against that is good, right? Whereas, like, what I want to do is maximize the number of hours I'm working every day, including weekdays and weekends, but I may not work at the same time, because I might want to work for 16 hours one day, and then like, sleep, and and then think about it and then wake up and work, you know, again, right? And so just for a reason, the world has climatized itself to this style of work. So whatever my personal preferences are, it's going to become the future. This is something that it's not, it's not something that's like a good or bad thing, it just so happens. I'll give you one more example, by the way, in the early 2000s, early mid 2000s, or there's a period between when Google Maps and the iPhone came out. Okay, so 2004 2007. And during that period, what I did was I would you know, when I was going, I'm sure other people did this, but just to give you an example, I would go and you Google Maps would give you screen by screen directions. So what I do is I would charge my laptop, I would screenshot every screen of the directions, then I keep my laptop on the driver side, or the passenger side seat facing. So it's like a pro iPhone doing Google Maps, right? Where I could just pause and he understand right? And and I also printed as a backup just in case the laptop round power. And so I knew that mobile was going to be a thing that Google Maps is going to be an app. Right? And, and just just stuff like that, you know, were just like weird, idiosyncratic things that I do. For example, you know, back in 2015, or something like that, when there was some wedding or something people were doing, I wrote a semi serious proposal, it was kind of meant to be a joke, but also semi serious on how people were going to Skype into their weddings in the future. And that's happened this year. Okay, five years later because of Corona. Right. And, you know, the thing about that is, it's ultimately what was holding that back was a cultural thing. But guess what, you'll get more attendees to your wedding, if you know, they can all come virtually right, you might actually see them and be able to catch up with them. The remote socialization tools are not yet there, obviously. And what people will say is nothing beats in person and so on. And maybe that's true. But I think in VR and whatnot, you can probably get something which is a pretty decent party experience if even if you consider a wedding special, you know, and so I do think and it will be wasted cheaper, you know? And so if it's 80, or 90% is good, but one 100 the cost, a lot of people are going to do that, right? So, so just for whatever reason, it just seems like my preference is starting to become the future in 110 or 20 years. I'll give you one more example. Okay. November 2019, you know, I tweeted something like, has anybody done full, like zoom conferences? Here? I'll find that exact tweet. It's pretty funny. Look, everybody ends up doing that just like, you know, obviously, a few months later, do the corona. November 26 2019. Has anyone held a fully remote conference via zoom or VR or something? law? Of course they have, right? So you know, just kind of funny.

Unknown Speaker  30:40  
So I want to transition into teaching where education is in a weird spot. Because when technology works, it's deflationary. Where we get the essence of technology is you get more for less cost go down, value goes up. And teaching has been in a weird place where that hasn't been happening, costs have been going up so much. And you when you were teaching at Stanford, you taught class about cryptocurrencies, data mining, statistics, computational biology, from teaching in person teaching remotely. What did you learn about teaching and the differences between in person and virtual?

Unknown Speaker  31:19  
Yeah, well, so the deflation aspect is important that people you know, it's funny people talk about bombshells cost disease, like, you know that jobs that have no rises in labor, productivity, have, you know, salary is going up and, and whatnot. And folks act as if this is like, super mysterious, but as a great graph that shows that, you know, the inflation is here, it's just not evenly distributed, where prices are up in education, as you pointed out, they're also up in healthcare, they're up in or at least until recently, they were up in real estate. And, and they're down in, you know, computers, and telecommunications and so on. And the rough lesson of that is anything that the technology industry touches, prices, hyper deflate, and everybody becomes equal, because everybody's got the same iphone or android phone experience, they've got the same Google, they've got the same Wikipedia, they've got the same StackOverflow, the same GitHub, anything that is digital, you know, for example, Steph Curry also uses Uber. So you actually get a consumer experience where to have the consumer economy is actually another form of equality at massive, massive scale, you produce the same product for everybody, there's not that much really price differentiation between a top end iPhone and, and a low end one. I mean, it may be five extra 10, I guess that you can get the gold thing or whatever. But that's purely a conspicuous consumption thing, as opposed to a functionality thing. So every area of technology is touched the price hyper deflates, every area of the state has touched due to regulations or subsidies. That's what impacts and impairs increase in labor productivity, just as one example. But then medicine, there's a requirement to have the doctor in the loop for many kinds of diagnostic decisions, even if artificial intelligence can do it better than 99% of doctors even before it's deployed, right. So you get into a production system, you calculate, and you get all collect all the data become better than every doctor, you know, for many things. And maybe you have like some MD supervising it, it's not. It's not something where it's just a program that runs by itself without any supervision. But that kind of thing, which is like automating the doctor way, you can't do because of regulations and subsidies. And by the way, a subsidy is much like a regulation in the sense that it sort of has a particular way of doing things cast into stone, you know, the the state has got it taken over. And that's why for example, gravity,

Unknown Speaker  33:30  
a subsidy changes gravity, right? So yes,

Unknown Speaker  33:33  
exactly. That's right. That's why, you know, we're still We're in 2020, we still have yellow school buses, we still have, you know, number two pencils, or whatever I think we do. And, you know, like, in many ways, you still go to a school, you know that because all that stuff is in budget appropriations, right, like, and Corona has finally changed that. But, you know, until Corona, essentially, this lagging aspect of the system, law, medics medicine, education, finance, real estate, all of these things were sort of lagging areas that were regulated or subsidized. And technology had partially reformed them, but not fully right. Now. They're just dragged into the future where you have digital education, it's all being put online, you have digital courts, where, you know, folks actually can attend court or whatever, you know, virtually, you have, you know, much more telemedicine because they finally repeal these laws that are stopping doctors in in Michigan from treating doctors in Illinois, like interstate licensure. And so the reason that all that stuff the prices have increased is 100%. In my view, a function of the state, either subsidizing or regulating and thereby distorting market forces and stopping new technology from entering it, I should say, 100%, let's say it is both the state and it's the state's indirect impact in terms of the cultural stuff the state sets up, like, oh, you're supposed to go to college before you get a job, that type of stuff. Right? Now, that's all falling apart, who wants to go to zoom classes, you know, and, you know, people are realizing that a lot of K through 12 is actually babysitting. As opposed to education, and so maybe you can unbundle those. And you have, you know, a learning pod, and you have a babysitter and a learning pod. And education is coming remote from a world class teacher, or learning app. So which, you know, these are really quite good. And those learning apps will let your child learn at their own pace, maybe they're really fast and math and slow and reading or vice versa. And now, it's not the industrial age, factory style production of like, every child the same, which is simply not true. You know, there's no such thing as a sixth grader. There's no such thing as a 30 year old, you know, you have 30 year olds who are billionaires, you have 30 year olds who are in prison, and you have 30 year olds who are everything in between. and, you know, you have basically, you know, this this huge spectrum of experience and difference. And actually, that goes very young, you know, there's, there's 18 year olds who are extremely good basketball players, 18 year olds who are extremely good, you know, mathematicians, there's 18 year olds who have quite a lot of, you know, differentiation by that age already. And so I think that having an educational system that that speaks to that is important. And we've mostly gone after higher ed so far in tech, because it's been a little more amenable to choice. You know, there's, there's the concept of people are adults, and they're able to choose between things. So you've had Coursera, you've had Udacity, you've had you to me, you've had all that stuff, which is good, right? You've got lambda school, and so on now, investment in lambda school,

Unknown Speaker  36:19  
read a passage.

Unknown Speaker  36:20  
Yeah, yeah. But now it's finally going into K through 12. And of course, lots of kicking and screaming, people are freaking out about it. But But yeah, so So finally, tech is getting an education. I think it will bring those prices down.

Unknown Speaker  36:31  
Yeah, I want to sort of get back to like, very concretely what you would, what kind of advice you would give to somebody who wants to learn how to teach because your MOOC was the best my knowledge, one of the biggest MOOCs in the world. But as you think about that, I have a comment. So one of my rite of passage students, she so talented, and she would routinely ask these, these incredible questions. And her name was Taylor, and I would talk to different people. And they'll be like, wow, you know, she's really smart. And so eventually, we we looked her up in terms of the survey data, and I was like, wait, she's 17 years old? Like, could this be that she's 17? She's asking all these great questions. And like, you know, when you meet someone who has like, a really good talent, but like an idiosyncratic talent, you're like, I just need to talk to you in some way. So I call her up. And I'm like, Hey, what's your story, she's from an hour north of Victoria, Canada, she lives on a small island. And she took online courses her entire way through high school, because she didn't want to go to the local public school. And so

Unknown Speaker  37:31  
I was like, her sophistication is just way off the charts,

Unknown Speaker  37:34  
if istation is way off the charts, but then there was something else too. And I think that humans are like this. And the internet is beginning to expose this. She was more polymathic than almost anyone I know. So it's like, what are you interested in? She's like, Oh, I'm really interested in sort of theoretical math and physics. But I also do drawings. And I was like, okay, so are you thinking going to college? It's like, yeah, I'm gonna go to college major in the liberal arts. And I'm like, wait, what I have never met a 17 year old or just about anybody who has studied all these things in depth. And I think that then this spoke to what you were just saying about ages, just a number here. There's like different kinds of aptitude that are becoming legible now. And now you don't need to be on the conveyor belt of how old you are, you could be on different kinds of conveyor belts based on wealth or success or talent in a certain area. And I think that's really interesting.

Unknown Speaker  38:23  
Yeah, I think also, you know, Blake Ross, for example, famously coated Firefox, like when he was a high school student, you know, and there's more and more examples of this young talent. And I think actually, we're sort of going back to the future where in the 18, hundred's kids worked very early on, you know, they were the reason that like, you know, jebediah and Abigail would have six kids is because they were actually, you know, cashflow positive in the sense of those kids were quickly picking, you know, like cotton or they were, you know, going in and like mending fences, milking cows doing doing all these farm type things. Right. And so the thing about that was, those kids were they were not infantilized, right, they were very quickly given a level of responsibility that was commensurate with, you know, their ability to follow instructions. They're doing chores, as soon as they could understand what chores were, right. So because of that, you know, folks became adults relatively quickly. They married early, you know, all that type of stuff, right. And then what happened was by like, the late 1800s, early 1900s, you know, sending your kids to work early on meant sending them now increasingly browse to the farm, sending them to a factory, right, where there'd be wage labor, and the difference and the sort of a flip way of putting it but I think, you know, interesting way of putting it is those factory owners were not equity aligned. They weren't they didn't love the kids, right? You know, the parents, like when they sent their kids out to do chores, they wouldn't you wouldn't work the kid to the bone. Of course, you know, you loved your kid and you weren't, you know, going to harm them. This choice would be good for them. They'd learn some discipline or whatever. The factory owner would not listen. have such a constraint. And so child labor obviously got a bad name because some unscrupulous factory owners would push these kids, you know too much, right. And so what happened was basically a backlash against children doing any kinds of work. And so that led to, you know, the 20th century. And, you know, basically the postwar rise of like, team culture, and sometimes we take for granted really wasn't a thing, you know, because teams didn't add, like consuming capabilities. And people

Unknown Speaker  40:24  
might our topic was 18th century staple. Yeah, yeah. Is that not true?

Unknown Speaker  40:31  
Right, right. So, essentially, yeah, no, exactly. Right. This is this entire kind of postwar consumer culture with, you know, teens and young adults being so important and whatnot, it was something where those kids were used to be producers, rather than consumers. I'm not saying 100%. But that was that was, you know, like a, like, a big part of the the trend is only like a prince, who, you know, could could afford to not work until they were 20 something or and just learn the fine arts, right? So because of that, you know, by this reaches, its apotheosis with the idea of being on your parents health insurance till you're 26. Right. So this kind of period of infantilization, this period of Oh, you're not independent, you're not making your own way. Failure to start failure to launch. All the type of stuff that people talk about, is, in part coming from this well intentioned thing of, Okay, let's stop children from being exploited by unscrupulous factory workers, etc. But now what's happening is we're coming back to the future, which is thanks to remote work. Thanks to pseudonymity thanks to cryptocurrency thanks to software development, and online writing, and so on. You can have a kid like your example of Victoria, like Blake Ross, who did Firefox, who can set up a pseudonym online. And you know, on the internet, nobody knows you're 14 years old, right? And they can do professional software development or writing or anything. And so long as they're sending the right symbols and getting the right symbols getting their work done on time. They can work and crucially, this is important, a parent can supervise them, right? You can know because they're at home, you can just watch them, they're just typing things into a screen. Right. They're not working at the Triangle Shirtwaist Factory, they're not at risk of having their finger singed by, you know, like, like some like, like, bad piece of equipment or something like that. Maximum they could do is spill coffee on their laptop, like, you know, that if you have them drinking coffee in their teens, right. So their their injury profile radically drops, right, the degree of exploitation. I mean, it's still possible, of course, but many of the concerns of physical damage associated child labor go away, right. And so now what you have, I think, are lots of kids who are going to be remote working at a much earlier age. Also, you combine that with the fact of, you know, folks needing more money, right? Like the US economy is contracting. And, you know, folks are now like, basically, family units are getting crushed back together, because everybody stay at home all the time. Right. And so you're sort of getting this interesting. steampunk, Neo modern, you know, Techno archaic future with and this is something I think is a deeper point. But our future is more like the 1800s. And then the 1700s. In the 1900s, were sort of going in reverse 1950 was kind of a mirror image moment. And that's like the peak of the centralized century, you go forward and backward in time you get more decentralized, huh, top of the mountain.

Unknown Speaker  43:19  
Yeah, it's funny, it's interesting to see the adulting meme on one side, hashtag adulting Oh, I'm trying seven years old, I have to go do my laundry. And this is such a big moment in my life, right out of bed before 2pm on this Saturday to go do my right, my noble duty of cleaning my clothes for the world. And that, contrast that with what we were talking about with metallic, but also I'm on the record saying that there's going to be a teenage billionaire by the end of the decade, because if you take everything that you just said, and then you add the leverage that you get with software. To me, that seems like almost a logical conclusion. And I guess my question here would be, let's move into writing and getting people to write about these technical subjects at a high level, that isn't really happening that much. So there's the incentives for high level companies to be founded, that are decent in terms of it's pretty clear how you can make a lot of money doing that. But this is something that you and I are both really interested in, how can we use the internet to incentivize and allow people to write really well about super technical subjects that it doesn't quite feel like substack Is there even though I'm a big fan of the company and know that they're onto something? They only feel like a part of this project of increasing the quality of information on the internet?

Unknown Speaker  44:49  
Yeah, I think that's right. So by the way, there certainly are teenage billionaires, but they were born rich rather than built rich. And by that, I think that's a very useful kind of one liner. You know, Rich is it obscures more than it? You know, I think it's a born rich is different from built rich? Did you know somebody hand it to them? Or did they build their fortune? Right? And there's a huge, huge difference between those, obviously. But I agree with you that, you know, will we certainly have 20 something billionaires, we'll probably have a teenage billionaire, if we if you haven't already had one. I do think that all these people who kind of tweet adulting, and so on, I've actually feel that's so it's interesting. There's an aspect of that, which is related to progress in the following sense. Which is, you know, the more things that can get done without you thinking about them, the more civilizational progresses, for example, I, you know, hit a key to send an email, right? And there's so many things happening, right, I depress the key, there's like the capacitance that changes when I hit that key, the wireless keyboard, okay, eight a 211 B, or, you know, like, or Bluetooth, it will send it to the laptop, laptop will trap that event, and it'll turn into packets. And it'll say, like, 500 things that are happening there. Right. And and you're not thinking about any of those things, you're surely not like milking the cow to see it happening. It's Right, exactly. So progress is abstraction. And that person who's saying, Oh, I'm adulting is like, well, all those things that they were doing, were behind levels of abstractions, they didn't care about them, right. The issue, though, is that you do too much abstraction. And a lot of people just, you know, humans being humans, they get alienated from that. And they think it's easy, when I was actually ridiculously hard to put all the things behind an easy interface. Really, really, really hard to do. You know, like thinking about

Unknown Speaker  46:35  
Amazon, it's like Amazon, wait, the boxes don't just fall from the sky and land on my front doorstep? No, there's entire supply chains. There's trucking companies, there's, there's, there's how that cardboard gets made. You know, it's like that eyepencil. Right, it's like all abstracting away.

Unknown Speaker  46:51  
Exactly, it is really hard to make something easy. And so the problem is, yeah, that's a good one liner. Right? Yeah. So it's really hard to make something easy. And so the issue is that if you're a producer, right, if you're founders, and you have a respect for everything else out there, because you're like, oh, my god, that was a lift to do that from scratch, that was very difficult. And then you're also actually much less critical of products on the internet. Because you're like, Ah, you know, I have some empathy for the person on their side. Yeah, this product sucks. But I'm sure they worked hard on it, you know, and you're like, Hey, you know, do better next time or whatever. This is what I wanted to see. Right? You're just like, more constructive in your criticism of it.

Unknown Speaker  47:35  
So when it comes to getting people to write good ideas, technical ideas online, there seems to be a big hole in the market. Like, for example, yesterday, I was walking the beach in Los Angeles. And there's this guy, he's taking a selfie. And so I go up to him, and I'm like, Hey, can I can I just take the photo for you? Because it was kind of awkward when he was doing. And so he's like, Yeah, sure. So I snapped the photo for him. We ended up talking. And he had been a geologist for 37 years. He's based in Houston. So I'm like, Oh, so you work in oil and gas? He's like, yeah, you know, it's like both kind of obvious.

Unknown Speaker  48:13  
Right? We challenged in Houston. Right,

Unknown Speaker  48:15  
exactly. So then I looked down at my foot, and I've a big thing of tar on my foot. And I'm like, why is this? And he's like, oh, like, that's actually pretty normal when you're on the beach. And then he starts talking to me about all the developments that have been made in geology. I was like, wow, I had no idea that any of this existed. but crucially, that information, at least some level of it isn't really well written online, because there isn't an incentive for him to take that and then publish these very technical ideas. And it seems like this is as close as we can get to a free lunch of raising the quality of average online information, saying Wikipedia isn't the end of history here. It's actually just one.

Unknown Speaker  48:57  
That's right. That's right. So okay, so this gets into kind of some of the stuff that I want to fund and I've been thinking about. So I have a landing page, by the way, if folks want to go and put in their info in this at media fund calm, this is just a landing page right now. It's a twinkle in my eye, but let me let me talk about what we were thinking about here. So typically, you know, I'll get to your point on on incentivizing, you know, the, like useful content online. Typically, people will put, let's say, war reporting and Kim Kardashian reporting at opposite ends of the spectrum, right? Like, you know, hey, this is super serious Pulitzer. And this is like, you know, fun, infotainment or whatever. I actually argue they're both infotainment at one end of the spectrum, and the other end is news you can use or tutorials. And the difference is, you know, is this piece of information directly relevant to your life, like are you going to, in particular, spend the effort to check every line of this information for example, but the tutorial It has built in fact checking, because you have the tutorial on the left and you have your terminal on the right. And you're typing in line by line to check that it works, right. Or if you've got like a YouTube video that is showing you how to sew something, right, or how to build a table, you're checking every line of that every every frame of that as you go and build a thing, right. So they can't, quote lie to, you know, that they would want to, they can't misrepresent it, they can't distort it, they can't understate the complexity, or overstate certain things. It's instructional and because instructional it is, it's leveling you up, right. And you're also fact checking it, which is non obvious. People don't think about that part. And, you know, similarly, news you can use, like the weather, right? You know, or a stock price, right? And, and this is something where it is upstream of an action, if rainy, then umbrella, if high stock, maybe I sell if low stock, maybe I buy, right. And so that's information that guard guides decisions, it's right next to the tutorial stuff, right. On the other end of the spectrum, is I read about some distant issue in so and so country. And unless I have, you know, like relatives there, or if I have, you know, businesses, there are operations there, it's really not relevant to me on a daily basis. And the thing is that, you know, people might say, Oh, you should be concerned about this. And that, the problem is that there's 7 billion people on the planet and to even know each of their names, right? This is just kind of a toy experiment. But you know, there's 86,400 seconds in a day, right? And so in 12 days, you could, if you learn one name a second 12 days, you could learn the names of a million people, okay. And it would take you 120 days, for 10 million people, and 1200 days for 100 million people, and 12,000 days for a billion people, and basically your whole life to even learn the names of the 7 billion people on the planet. And so therefore, you cannot possibly care about them equally, you have to somehow triage or somehow prioritize, right? with the assumption being that to even care about someone at least you need to know their name to personalize it, right. So you have to rank order what you're paying attention to. And the infotainment stuff should be filtered out of the feed. One way of thinking about this is, you know, the analogy between your diet and your information diet. So your diet, I mean, look, you know, having a cookie from time to time might be fine. But if you're only eating cookies, and you're not eating healthy food, you're going to have negative metabolic consequences, you know, your health is going to be messed up, your life is going to be worse, and so on. Right? In the same way, like, you know, not saying never, you know, have fun, never, you know, like, like, watch something interesting. But I do feel that Twitter, and a lot of social media are like a restaurant that's learned to put sugar in their food.

Unknown Speaker  52:39  
They're giving us intellectual

Unknown Speaker  52:40  
diabetes. Exactly. That's right. They're basically stimulating us. And I actually think that you can make this totally quantitative, where there are devices, for example, that will monitor your blood glucose. And so you can see, you know, after you eat a cookie or banana, you can see a spike with some time delay, right? So you can actually see what it's doing to your body. You can see it on screen, which is actually pretty awesome, right? Okay. The equivalent is you are reading Twitter, or whatever, or social media. And we should be able to see a spike in cortisol or something like that. Oh, that's stressing me out. Oh, that concerns me. Or it's like cloying emotionality, interviewing, like, Oh, so cute. This, this this puppy or whatever, right? And so it's meant to provoke an extreme emotional reaction. And it's coming in through our eyes and ears. And, you know, in much the same way that like Hollywood has learned to put sex and violence into movies, because it's stimulating, right? It's like, you see this and you're, you know, reptile brain is like, oh, violence, I must pick up an axe and join in. You know, it's real. Right? It's, it's exciting. It's cool if you pay attention to it, right? So we need is, I think, a different form of media. That is more like the news you can use in tutorials and the infotainment, right. And it's all about relevance and skill building. And it's like an optimized information diet. And so this gets back to write down your goals. Haha, your dad was smart. So what skills do you actually want to build? Right? What is your intentionality? And, you know, to some extent, you know, like, following people on Twitter is sort of there. But I think a better you know, one framework for this is the mnemonic framework by Michael Nielsen and Andy mashiac. Right. So the idea is, you know, rather than reading recreationally as we do now, if you've read in the lean forward, Ray, if you if you read to remember, they've got a site quantum country, where they have spent a lot of time on essentially an application where you read and Amelie prompts you for whether you recall the stuff, right? It's got like a question there, and then asks you whether you remembered it, and it's optimized for mobile and so on. So you can still do it in a Leanback kind of way, right? But then sometimes they'll ask you to break out a pen and paper and actually learn something and crucially because they send these kind of email reminders to people, they find that people's retention is actually much higher than they would expect. And it's a finite amount of effort that gives an exponential amount of retention. So it shows you can spend your time in a much better way by learning things very fast. And that we this is kind of relate to the schaums thing I talked about earlier, where you, you solve problems. And if you solve the problems, you understand what's going on, and then you can fast forward and skip, they're like a placement test kind of thing. So I think that a big part of the next generation of content for allowing people to level up can't be like the current social media where you interact with it by liking and, and our team. It should be about learning and earning.

Unknown Speaker  55:40  
And it's, it's, it's purely passive, what you're saying is a more active approach, right? So I open up Twitter, and there's, it's interesting, it is very personalized, in a way, but in what you're saying, I've never thought about this before. It's actually very unperson alized it has no idea there we go Dad, it has no idea what your goals are.

Unknown Speaker  55:58  
Exactly. That's right. Exactly. And and so one way of thinking about it is social media, Netflix and so on are optimized to just like consume as many minutes of your day as possible, literally addictive. There's a totally opposite design paradigm which is give the maximum value to somebody in the minimum amount of time. How can I give somebody $100 in like one second right now we do earn calm before we sold it actually are calm is still like this it coin base earn is like that. We can give you like $5 of value in a few seconds. Right? You go there you answer some questions on cryptocurrency, you were in some cryptocurrency, that concept of tasking over the internet. Now you might say, well, how can you earn $100? In a few seconds? Well, let's say you're a doctor, and you are really good at diagnosis, I could probably get you a stream of images, which you could help label we might automate a machine learning algorithm. Can you tell? Yeah, exactly. Like people have actually proposed this and it's actually is this is this cancer says it's not as this cancers it's not. And it sounds flip, but it's actually something where you're downloading information out of a skilled practitioners brain and into a machine readable format, right? Those zero and one labels from a, you know, 1000 radiologists could train a, an algorithm, right? Or it could supplement an algorithm where the algorithm can't decide and it kicks it over to human for the hard cases.

Unknown Speaker  57:12  
Well, it's interesting, because this is one of the things that Mandelbrot talks about in misbehavior of markets, is that a human's ability to use their perception to gauge what like a graph looks like this is where humans are really good. And this seemed to lead was very influenced by that book. If you look at his citations throughout the certo, he's always cited Mandelbrot a couple weeks ago, he went on Twitter, it was sort of like a riddle of different numbers. And which one is more likely just with statistics. And to lab said, this is something that you want to eyeball. And so there's a certain class of, we could call them eyeball problems, which computers are way worse at solving than humans? And then we could get Tinder for cancer for those.

Unknown Speaker  57:56  
Yeah, it's interesting, though, because once you can teach a machine to do something, it'll usually do it better than a human. Ah, for example, what's his mate? Yeah, exactly. Right, like so. So for example, chess, right? Or go, right, it is non trivial to teach them those eyeball problems, very non trivial, you often have to, you know, think very deeply about what a human is actually doing. Extract the training information. It's, you know, there's various techniques, right? But once you do, it's surpassed, it's kind of like, with flight. There's aspects of, we don't yet understand how agile the bumblebee is, or how it can fly how it does at least that's apocryphal error, Astro, evidently, we don't fully understand it. And there's aspects of like how birds are really agile that we haven't yet been able to figure out. But we have been able to make machines that fly faster and higher than any animal that we know of. So basically, there is something to the deer that once we can put it into the machine format we can exceed. And it's just non trivial to do that. I mean, brain machine interface. Another great example of this, like, you just turn it into something where you can read signals from the brain. And you're like, Okay, well, that's what an A is encoded as, boom, you can think, obviously, these like there's devices now where you can think in type. It's telepathy, pretty awesome. Excellent.

Unknown Speaker  59:17  
So let's talk about media Fund, which you mentioned earlier. So let's take all of this back into very tacitly Now, how do we create incentives? You were talking about this twinkle in the AI vision? What is that thing?

Unknown Speaker  59:33  
Yeah, so one thing I've been thinking a lot about is that if you as a writer, add value to your reader, you should get a cut of that. Okay. So like the venture journalism or venture media model, of which there's a few, but basically, there's like kind of two of them, right one is, let's say you're interested in fusion energy to solve climate change or genetic testing to help with COVID or self driving cars to reduce traffic data. Or encryption to protect privacy, right? So you've got some social problems. So you are concerned about a problem, or you're just excited about technology or either one, and you're writing about it. And that inspires an entrepreneur to go and, you know, start a company. And it could be writing, by the way, but it could also be video, it could be images, because, you know, it's let's call it full stack media, right? So you inspire someone to go and start something. And, you know, that could be, for example, the movie Minority Report inspired them to connect at Microsoft. Or you had you know, Nicholas Kristof, in the New York Times wrote an article that inspired Bill Gates to go and do these decentralized toilets in Africa, which didn't require connection to the central grid, right? So those two are cases with big companies. But there's many startups separate inspired by a piece of writing. And the thinking is, okay, you inspire them, What if you get a cut, where they seek investment through a form on your site, and you get an affiliate referral, right, so they click through, they set up, let's say, an Angeles profile, we have the record of the fact that they listed john@author.com as a refer, right, or they came from author.com his domain, just like we track referrals all the time now within internet advertising, right. And if we invest X dollars, 10% of that goes to the author, and they can take half of that in equity and half of them cash for example, right. And so just as a toy example, let's say that there's an entrepreneur, their company's valued at 10 million investors put in 500, k 50, k of that goes to the author, and 25 k of that is cash today, and 25 k speculative equity. And then in 10 years, that's worth two and a half million dollars, because that fusion energy company exits for 100 x, right? These are not totally insane numbers, this is possible, it goes from a 10 million valuation to a so called billion dollar valuation. So here's what that does, by the way, that changes the incentive structure of the writer to go from quantity to quality. Now, it doesn't matter, you know, how many page views you get, or rather, that's not the only metric where you're trying to do is find the next Zuckerberg or vitalik a fusion energy and attract them to your blog, right? Or your outlet. With that may mean, by the way, is you only have 10,000. You know, readers in the world, there's only people who care enough about this fusion energies news they can use as opposed to curiosity. But your discussion is pegged at a very high level, right? you're someone who is able to add value to the best people in the world and they look back and they're like, Okay, this is awesome. Like, you know, what Ernest Cline did with Ready Player One, he helped inspire Oculus, he could have gotten a cut of that.

Unknown Speaker  1:02:32  
Yeah, it's interesting, because I've seen this with rite of passage, where, when I first started the school, I wanted to have the world's biggest writing school. And then I wanted to have the world's smartest community of online writers. And it has totally changed how I write, I haven't looked at my page view metrics. In months, I used to look at it every single day. And so what ends up happening is you begin to think in terms of attractors. And right now, there aren't really metrics that incentivize people to actually attract higher level people, and who could build a company like this. But once you do begin to have those incentives, you then and I've realized this in the last couple of months, oh, my goodness, the kinds of articles that I write now have a level of meat and nutrition that I was actually incentivized to write intellectual junk food, when Google Analytics was my proprietary measure of how well I was doing.

Unknown Speaker  1:03:31  
Mm hmm, exactly. That's right, you will get what you optimize, right. And so if your dashboard is how much so by the way, there's another aspect of it, which is how much your users have learned. So the mnemonic dashboard, how much they pertain for me writing, you've you've actually increased their human capital, and then how much they've earned. Like, did they raise money? Right? Or, and not everybody's going to be an entrepreneur or founder, it's a relatively small percentage of people. But you know, there's, there's a more like, repeatable process, which is recruiting, right? So you didn't just level them up and teach them fusion energy or what have you. You may have gotten, like, point 1% of them or point a 1%. You made them a founder, but 1%, you got the job at a fusion energy company, and then you get a cut of that.

Unknown Speaker  1:04:16  
Why is this so important? Why writing? Why are you focused on this? Like, why is this the thing that you're now attracted to? That's not really clear to me?

Unknown Speaker  1:04:27  
Ah, okay, that's great question. It's because media and social media are upstream of everything. Like, code is how you have machines know what to do. And media is how humans know what to do. And technology has focused on software, which is how we can gain lots of value out of machines. But we have focused less than we should have. I mean, it's funny to say that because, you know, social media is so huge and whatnot. We focused a lot less than we should have on first party media, in terms of increasing people's human capital and Again, there's been a lot of efforts here. There's there's online education, there's, there's a lot of good stuff out there, but we really haven't done is seek to build like the full stack narrative, right? Oh, that's something else. By the way. Everything I've described it to this point is maybe sound like eat your vegetables, right, which is education versus infotainment. But there is, you know, thesis antithesis, synthesis, where you can make it edutainment, right, really entertaining but also highly educational, you know, textbooks that read like novels, right. And I think that's possible to do, it just hasn't really been tried. You know, for example, there's this famous book on statistical mechanics, opening to 1975 book states of matter by David Goodstein, loot, Boltzmann, who spent much of his life studying Cisco mechanics died in 1906, by his own hand, Paul ehrenfest, carrying on the work dead similarly, in 1933, now it is our turn to say Cisco mechanics, perhaps it would be wise to approach the subject cautiously. Alright, that's a great hook. You know, at the beginning, it's like for a bit of knowledge, oh, my God, what did they see, you know, kind of thing. But of course, it's a very technical topic, it's just a, so I think that can be done, where you apply many of the techniques of Hollywood and of, you know, screenwriting, and so on to this kind of content. And it just just hasn't really been tried yet. I mean, again, it's somewhat these, these educational apps are out there. I'm not saying they're zero. But But I feel it hasn't been like directing the gunsights.

Unknown Speaker  1:06:27  
I think you're missing feedback loops, as a critical component of this, as someone who teaches, and one of the things that we do is we try to make as much of the student experience legible as possible. And so for example, during class, at least once, I will ask a question, and I will get hundreds of paragraph responses from my students, I can also follow the chat. And after every single lesson, I have five to 800 chats that I can look at to gauge the temperature of the class, we have our entire circle forum of places where students are engaging and interacting. And I look at all this. And so I can actually understand how my students are feeling so much better than like when I would go to college classes, I would sit down, I'd go to the class, I wouldn't give much response at all, except for maybe head nods. And I think that what you're saying here is that what we can actually do is begin to understand what parts of the educational experience have this drop off rate. And then in the same way that Netflix has a lot of data on how their TV shows are actually performing. If we can then apply that to the educational experience, it can be so much richer, and so yeah, not sure that necessarily it hasn't been tried before, I think that there's actually like a 10 x hundred x of legibility that then allows us to gain visibility into what students are feeling and where they're struggling.

Unknown Speaker  1:07:57  
So that's really good. So basically, first of all, it's that's good feedback on feedback. Let me sort of integrate that with this because I agree with you since you know, having taught that's also super important. The aspects were I was thinking about that were a the mnemonic dashboard, so you can see where your students are learning. So that is feedback of a kind be is, I think every new media company needs to be a media community as well, where you have a personal relationship with your 10,000 readers in, for example, like locals calm is like a social network in a box, right? You put up your content, but you also have a relationship with your readers, you know, like a newsletter is just a broadcast, but you really want like a mini social network. I mean, there's comments on it, of course. But you maybe you want something persistent, like a chat room where it's not just it's like a guided chat room, perhaps, where you're posting first party stuff, right. And you know that there's a continuum between a blog or somebody comments. And then, and there's one moderator than a group blog, and then you know, where there's a few moderators, and then social media, where there's no moderators beyond Twitter. And it's just a free for all right, like, who's who's posting who's giving feedback to each other. I do think that the blog or group blog model is actually underappreciated where it's a moderated conversation. But everybody, a group blog with a social network, I think, is a less explored format on the internet, that I think we could do a lot more of, a little bit like, you know, the faculty of a university, and all of their grad students being in the same chat.

Unknown Speaker  1:09:26  
Right, what I'm hearing you say is like, you get to kind of create your own university here that the versity starts with the network, you become a magnet for talent, then you then have your own incubator coming out of a university that then radiates startups like a yc model, and then you take a cut of the magnetism and the network that is built.

Unknown Speaker  1:09:48  
That's right. That's right. And, you know, the thing is, I've had this, you know, business plan and so on since 2013. I've just been doing other things since then. And now we're just tech is in 2020. Maybe it's the right time for something like This, the big thing about it is it's extremely scalable. Because once you can actually so the part that's not scalable is that personal feedback, right? But the part that is scalable is everything associated with mnemonics everything associated with like content that trains people, and so on and so forth. Right? So you might, you might do something where, for example, if you want to become an expert on platinum, you know, and platinum mining and the uses industrialists of platinum, you know, there's there is some stuff out there, it's not bad, there's Wikipedia, there's so on, there isn't like, to my knowledge, at least Platinum University. Right? And, and so that kind of thing, where it's contemporaneous also, by the way, because a lot of textbooks don't get updated fast enough, and so on, this would be the place, you know, where you'd come to become a world expert in this keyword. And I think that building a community of those folks, you know, interesting question is always a question of do fully decentralized or do it centralized, centralized, you have a consistent format and style and aesthetic, if you do a decentralized, then you can have 100 people who are motivated as CEOs. And you know, that may get you more in the long run, right? So there's arguments on both like Y Combinator is decentralized. Because Paul Graham goes and funds you know, 1000 people, they do different things. But something that's achieving the vision is typically centralized, you know, like Alon decentralized? Both are both are reasonable. I do, however, think that there's a big gap here. And it's still what's funny about it is despite all the online education, I think, as you said, Wikipedia is not yet in history. We're not yet there on this.

Unknown Speaker  1:11:36  
Yeah, what I hear you saying is that there's a last mile problem with knowledge, where when I was talking to this oil guy on the beach in Los Angeles, he already had all the knowledge, that's actually the hard part. But what's happening is he's not sharing the knowledge. You know, a lot of people think, and this is why I'm so loud about trying to get people to write, a lot of people think that writing is starting at square one, where Oh, my goodness, I need to start writing. But people who have years of experience, or have read x, number of books traveled to y number of countries started z number of companies, they're actually at like mile 24. At a marathon, where they actually gaining the experience is the hard part, making it legible to the world is what we are struggling with as a society in terms of how many experts there are versus how few of them actually share their knowledge. My question to you is, I kind of think of you sometimes is the pseudonym guy. How does that factor into this? And in terms of the future that we're going to,

Unknown Speaker  1:12:43  
yeah, so you know, I gave a talk last year called the pseudonymous economy. And that's maybe, you know, useful for, you know, folks with this to just Google and watch some YouTube. And one thing I think is going to happen this decade is that people are going to stop using their real names online and start using pseudonyms more and more. And I also think the specific kind of pseudonym that'll get popularized will be a crypto domain name. So like David pearl dot, eth, well, that's actually it's got your real name before it. But you might actually use, you know, FUBAR. 97 dot eth, right. And the thing about this, that's powerful about crypto domain name, in particular, as pseudonym. People here may not know what a crypto domain name is, but you can google DNS that's aetherium name system, or handshake and read about it. It's like a domain name, like, you know, David pearl calm or, you know, fubar.com. But it also has encryption and payments and all the other stuff built into it. Like you could send an encrypted message to that crypto domain name, you could send a payment, certainly to it, you could send other things like digital art, or digital certificates, like a certificate of graduation or rite of passage, you could confirm that that person graduated rite of passage at a particular time, you could see their reputation because they can log in to online services with that crypto domain name. You can see like whether they've staked a balance, for example, they staked a balance of 100 bucks so that they're trustworthy actor when they log into a platform. And you know, they're also likely to be real and not a troll. You can do things like they accumulate karma under one name, and they can transfer it privately to another pseudonym. So this way, you can, you know, build up karma in a community, and then transfer it to a pseudonym, and then speak more freely in that community than you normally would. Right? All of these are types of things, which I think allow for people to speak their minds freely on the internet and earn synonymously without being attacked. And I think that's gonna be a huge part of the 2020s is this pseudonymous economy with crypto domain names as being the kind of pseudonym.

Unknown Speaker  1:14:41  
The other thing that you've been talking about, as we've spoken recently, and you're talking about this with with with truth and verification is something that you call the ledger of record. So why don't you give us just a brief background of Oracle's the Oracle problem and then let's work our way up the ledger of record.

Unknown Speaker  1:14:59  
Yeah, totally. So To introduce first the concept of crypto Oracle's, you know, right now, if you want to find out the weather in Chicago, Illinois back in 2014, January 15, right, you'll go and look at the weather channel's records on that. If you go, if you want to look up stock prices, you're going to go and probably look up, let's say Bloomberg, you know, records on that. If you want to know real estate prices in particular, you look up Zillow has records on that, right? So we have a system right now where there's tons of tons of data that's online, it's in these databases. But it's siloed. It's behind, you know, paywall, it's not all that, you know, variable. It's in these companies data sets, but it's not out there on the internet. And an important point is that many stories today are effectively wrappers around this kind of data. For example, sports articles are wrappers around the feet of data from the NBA. And financial articles are wrappers around the feet of data from Bloomberg. And many political articles are wrappers around the feet of data from Twitter. And so right, if you think about it, they literally have embedded tweets, right? This is progress, in a sense, where you have the letters sitting on top of the numbers, each of those posts is fundamentally a numerical data structure. Right? even, you know, tweet, even though it's words there, there's numbers that say, when was the timestamp, you know, what, where was a poster, from what device? What account all that type of stuff, right? It's literally a discharge, you can print the so called JSON of it. So the concept is all right, if all of these articles are based on feeds of data, what if we took all of the feeds of data, and we put them not just online, but on chain. Okay, so on chain is the next step after online. And what that means is, it's not just like accessible on a server that might go down at some point, it is posted on a blockchain which will never go down.

Unknown Speaker  1:16:52  
So you saw the permalink problem, you saw the link fraud problem, blockchains, don't go down since her, you know, distributed. So anybody, there's other kinds of destructions, you can use an ipfs. Or like when ipfs, you can use ipfs, or a system like that for decentralized data storage, okay, block chains are not the only thing, but you post it on chain, or the equivalent. And what you can get is, especially if you post on chain, you'll get timestamps, you'll get a digital signature as to who posted it, you get a hash of what was posted. And so you can prove mathematically who posted what went right, or at least what entity with this digital signature, wrote what data at what time, and why is this important? Because it's digital history. It's unfalsifiable history. So to give you three examples of how this record of all of these facts could resolve things, six years ago, Tesla had a issue where NYT wrote an article saying that, you know, their their car had stalled out on the side of the highway. And they pulled the instrumental record. And they showed that that article was not true, that it had not actually stalled out in that way. Right. And so that was something where the instrumental record, the ledger of record was able to falsify the words on top, the numbers took precedence over the letters. Second example, last year, the Brazilian fires, Emmanuel Macron, retweeted a photo of supposedly, the Brazilian fires in the New York Times printed this tweet, put it in an article. And it turns out that photo was taken by a photographer who died in 2003. So the photo most as at least 15 years old. And so again, a timestamp, basically showed that the story about the Brazilian fires was false. And that was actually a big deal, because people were talking about international intervention, oh, my God, you know, Brazil is letting the Amazon burn down, we need to stop it, etc. But the information was fake. It was not, or at least some of those photos were false. third example, in China recently, two years ago, a court in Hong sao went and proved that a patent dispute, the litigant was incorrect because the defendant had actually put their patent or the contents or patent on chain before that infringement had actually occurred. So a third example of where a timestamp resolves a dispute, right? And to put it, you know, to make this, you know, even more obvious, like the crypto space is worth hundreds of billions of dollars. And the whole reason is because you timestamp as to who got what money went, who owned one scarce property when, right. And so it this simple kind of mechanism of the timestamp is, you know, you think that Nixon right with Watergate, what did they say? What did he know? And when did he know it? Right. So digital history as to what happened when, who did what, when is way more important than people think. Right? Go back to the timestamp, go back to the video camera, go back to the footage, find out what happened. If you had that in an unbelievable way, or a public way or all of the above? Right? You'd have what I call the ledger of record, retake. So what's a crypto Oracle? By the way, coming back to that definition, imagine if the weather channel didn't just post its weather online where it could go to down, but on chain where it couldn't write whether if Bloomberg did the same if Zillow did the same, right? That would mean that you have a ledger of record where it's like you hit a button. It's like for the record, right? So you're posting this for the record. That's unbelievable. And such, it's unbelievable. It's also publicly accessible. You might make it something where you could do something in between, by the way, you could make it something where it's accessible to those people who have a cryptographic key, right. But the point is that this ledger of record, as you get feeds of not just sports scores and financial stuff. But every tweet, every real estate transaction, every Coronavirus, death, right, every Weather Channel post, you start to have a library of all the events that ever happened. And now, any story you tell about what happened in the past, better reference the ledger record. And the thing about it is, on the one hand, this is not that big a change in behavior. It's like tweeting except you tweet for the record by posting to ledger record. And it's like linking except rather than linking to a website, you link to a blockchain or a block Explorer. And that'll show you this unbelievable thing.

Unknown Speaker  1:21:09  
So why is this important? Besides the novelty of it, like it's not quite clear to me how this is something that's worth being excited about? It sounds okay. sort of just cool. This is a new technology, but the way that you're talking about it, it's like no, this isn't a bunch of interconnected cables in 1985. This is the internet and it's gonna have some fundamental changes.

Unknown Speaker  1:21:31  
Absolutely. This is probably, I think, one of the most important, I mean, we have to be able to execute on it. But it's already happening. You're having the script, Oracle's be set up. This thing is going to be one of the most important technologies of this decade if we can if we can popularize it and make it a thing. And the reason is, for let me give you a very contemporary example. Okay, how many Coronavirus sets have occurred? Right? You know, there's a number out there, it's like, you know, I think the latest was like about 170,000 in the US. And the issue is that folks will distress this, you know, oh, you know, these are folks who have heart attacks are diabetes. They didn't actually die from Coronavirus and so and so forth. Right. And so there's layers, you just see that number, right. But if you had something where every hospital was posting a feed online, okay, and not, crucially, not with private patient information, all right. And that's where the encryption and permissioning and so on. These are important issues. I don't gloss over them. They're things you'll have to figure out technically. But they're obviously giving summary statistics already. Right? deaths and so on. Right. So clearly, that's not a patient privacy issue. Right. So if there was a feed of every single Coronavirus, death, or case or release or diagnosis was like a single tweet, right worth of data, okay? It's a little more than a tweet, but just conceptually, and all of that was posted on chain, then anybody who is skeptical could hit enter and pull all of the raw data. Right, you would not need to take it on faith, you'd have to see that 1000 hospitals, all of whom had reputations and names and they had been trusted, and so on 1000 hospitals, were all going and posting this this data over time, right. Once you've got that, like, that's a level of granularity, where if you have something where it's St. Jude's and it's a, you know, sees Cedars Sinai and it's Harvard hospital, and by the way, for example, all the Chinese statistics, right, you know, one of the issues with this with Coronavirus in the early days was people were like, Oh, I can't trust anything that comes out of China. Okay. You can't trust something that comes out of China, you know what that is? Is their blockchain transactions? Because they couldn't falsify that. Right? There's people in China who are sending and receiving Bitcoin, and those transactions are getting posted. And by the way, that's also kind of the future I think of international trade is, you know, these these folks in different countries, you may not be able to trust each other's legal systems, they can trust digital currency, they can trust the on chain substance, you can fully audit everything, you can see it all right. So the point of this, this idea is, let's say that folks in China had actually done this, they posted on chain right now. Basically, it's much more auditable, right? There's still ways that you might be able to falsify it. But they start to get really expensive, depending on how it's done. You know, as an example, with that Brazilian fires thing, right? Very few people could have realized the timestamp from 16 years ago of this journalist dying in 2003 would be relevant to like stopping a war 15 years later. Right? And you'd have to in the blockchain mode, erase billions, trillions of records, to go back and rewrite that thing from 15 years ago. You see, I'm saying it becomes infeasible. You can't do what Stalin did and Photoshop somebody out of a photo. You can't delete history anymore, right? And it's a dad is where things start to get super interesting in terms of having a base of undeniable truth, to rely on society around. Because without that, you have something like COVID-19, which I think has really motivated a lot of my thinking on this, how do we get to consensus on those things that can be numerically demonstrated. And we always get, by the way, with this kind of discussion is, like, the naive first order is, oh, facts matter. And then the sophisticated second order is facts don't matter, man. See, it's all narratives. And it's all you're just competing tribes, and the facts don't matter at all right. But the third order is actually facts really do matter. Because the the narrative that is based on facts, will, in the medium to long term, have more contact with reality, and therefore more technological and economic strength.

Unknown Speaker  1:25:49  
That last bit is critical, right? Like, that's why the US eventually beat the Soviet Union is that like, communism required to just lie more, you know, that to make up factory numbers, because, you know, if you didn't have prices, supply chains didn't work, factories didn't produce and so on. So eventually, you know, holy lies, right, like, like the kinds that animated, you know, the Soviet regime, unfortunately, works surprisingly well in the short term, because you can bully people into conforming with them, and so on, so forth. But in the medium to long term, they don't work, because your machines don't work, right? You just become poor as a society, and you're, you're screaming these holy lies, but it doesn't matter, because other societies that didn't believe them have exceeded you technologically, right? And economically. So that's why, you know, this type of stuff is actually pretty important, you know, the nature of how to get truth in a decentralized environment.

Unknown Speaker  1:26:41  
Awesome. So what I want to do is I have a bunch of questions, and I just want to sort of do rapid fire, and we're just going to skip around all over the place. But I want someone to sort of get a, I guess we could call a biology explosion of sorts. Yeah. Why is life extension the essence of technology?

Unknown Speaker  1:26:59  
Ah, so I wrote an article on this Vala GS COMM The purpose of technology, and it's a non obvious claim, but let me see if I can get there in a sentence, which is, if the purpose of technology is to reduce scarcity, then the ultimate purpose of technology is to eliminate mortality. Okay, so let's break that down. So the first part, if x then y, right, if the purpose of analogy is to reduce scarcity, so why do we say that? Well, every technology that you've ever heard of, it's usually described as, Oh, this makes something faster or cheaper, or, you know, better or, you know, whatever, right? lighter, that type of stuff. And why is it better if it's faster? Why is it better if it's cheaper, so if it costs you $1, it used to cost you $100. That means it takes 100 X, you know, less money, but that also means it takes 100 less x less time, because your life is you know, at least some of your working life is turned into money, or you spend an hour doing consulting, you get some money out of it, right? And rather than spending 100 minutes of your life, you spend one minute now of time on using this because the technology improved, it went away 100 x faster. There's actually a movie by the Andrew Niccol called in time that explore this idea of time as a currency, right? He puts in various dramatic hooks to, you know, make it seem like some people are hoarding time and immortal and others aren't. But I don't think that actually has to be scarce. point being that if you're doing all these things in tech to produce scarcity, the ultimate scarcity of production that gives everybody back lots of time is life extension, or reversing aging. And that should be technically feasible. Now. That's the thing that people don't get. It is possible to reverse aging. Like it's starting to happen in mice, like the technology is actually moving like Oliver Brando, David Sinclair, Laura, deeming at longevity fun. There's some really awesome stuff that's happening in this area. And so we should prioritize that because life extension makes everything cheaper. If you live to 150, as opposed to 70. If you knew that you had that many years, not just being superannuated, by the way. You could also call it youth extension, right? Like, you know, why can't we drink a potion or take an injection or whatever, and restore ourselves to how we were at 25. And if you're 25, by the way, you're like, well, that's fine. I don't care. But once things start to break, it's like a car that starts to kind of break down. You're like, yeah, you know, I wish I was 25. Again, I could run faster. I could work harder. There. Lots of folks want to be 25. Again, right? As a 24 year

Unknown Speaker  1:29:34  
old, I could tell you, it's pretty good right now,

Unknown Speaker  1:29:36  
it's pretty good now. That's right. That's right. But basically what happens is just stuff that never bothered you, your elbow, your knee or whatever. It just starts acting up. One thing by the way, that's important though, is I made the analogy to a car breaking down, but it's actually not a great analogy for the following reason. When you deal with mechanical things like cars, there's a failure rate that you can model Some cars that are just lucky, never experienced any of those failures. And so, you know, one out of 10,000 cars, makes it 50 years, 100 years, you know, whatever without being repaired, because you just, the errors don't accumulate you, you might, by random chance be able to make it. humans aren't like that there's like a hard drop off at 120. If humans broke down like cars, there'll be some humans who be living to 1000. Right? Instead, what happens is you have a very predictable and coordinated kind of thing where people kind of go gray, they get fat, or whatever, and kind of the same way as they age, right. And so people believe, and now there's a lot of evidence that shows that this is actually a triggered and coordinated thing, just like, we know that you're kind of genetically wired to go from a baby to an adult, right? It's not like 25 would be your natural state forever, you're genetically wired to die. Right? So maybe we can unwire that. And in fact, folks are working on that, right. So this, to me, is also where, you know, more broadly, we have to start talking in tech much more about our values and our valuations. Money is only a tool. And what really matters is building something you can buy. And that's actually what improves life expectancy. That's, you know, life expectancy, by the way, used to be the metric of, you know, technological progress. Most recently, it's, it's something where people are focused on stock prices, or GDP, which are fine, right? But, you know, are ultimately human metrics as opposed to physical metrics, right? They say they're, they're into human, you know, I pay you x, you pay me why or whatever. Versus Hey, I changed the physics. So this person went from 70 years old to 150. It's a different scene, like a ratio scale variable, versus one that's not right, either, you know, folks are actually living forever, or they're living, you know, till age 400, or they're not, whereas the stock price, you can kind of decide on that between two people. So I think that, broadly speaking, in the 2020s, we're going to start to see now that we won't see SAS apps and that type of stuff, that's all fine, it's good, okay. But we're going to also start to see more of a focus on the real stuff, right, not just life extension, which is like the core of it. But brain machine interface, limber generation, you know, curing deafness, I had an article that I linked there with like RNA injections that, you know, go and restore hearing, curing loss of sight with like bionic eyes, a lot of the actual miracles, I think we can actually start making happen with technology, and get the future that you know, folks that have grown up thinking about,

Unknown Speaker  1:32:30  
yeah, values to valuation, that's a shot in the Balaji, one liner drinking game. You know, you know, you know, I'm thinking maybe we should do, I'm trying to think, is this a drinking game? Or is this bingo? And I, you know, I'm trying to figure out which one, but I could totally see 25? one liner squares? Yes. Good news, online writing to spin up a digital country?

Unknown Speaker  1:32:51  
Great question. So, you know, hertzel did it where he wrote juden Stott, and that actually founded Israel. Right. So proof of concept, right. And basically, what happened was he catalyzer, reversed aspra, where folks around the world were inspired by this, and, you know, came to Israel and so on. And obviously, not without controversy, or whatever. But, but it showed that basically, about 50 years after he wrote it, he got to state. So first, that shows that it's not crazy to think about doing it,

Unknown Speaker  1:33:18  
right. It's possible future is here, it's just not evenly distributed yet.

Unknown Speaker  1:33:22  
Yeah, exactly. Also, the Federalist Papers, right, you know, with Publius, and so on, the founding fathers went and wrote synonymously. And that became the basis of the new government, they argued with each other, and so on about how it should be right. So how'd you do it, I would say a, you can write online, build a community, be give everybody VR headsets, and start actually building a city in VR. Okay, and you can do this with Autodesk and so on, you can actually import the models into VR, right? I think by the way, VR architecture is going to be a big thing this decade, just like there's folks who are now so many people are publishers, right? So many people are, you know, video editors, a lot of people are going to become amateur architects, because becoming more accessible. And that starts actually bring your VR will start to make people think, again, about innovating in the physical world, because you can do everything on the computer and then hit enter. Right? So a you build a community online with a purpose that comes from the writing, be you you simulate the city or town in VR, see, you enforce governance and physical levels of civility. Okay, that's an important term. It's funny, because the physical world is now becoming uncivil. Right. But just remember back to 2010 when people weren't like beating each other up in the streets, and like, like, you can mostly walk around. Now that's something where civility is novel. It's funny, but it's true, right? But what I said somebody a while ago, his Twitter is not the real world, but it will be. And that's happening, right? Twitter's fights are coming into the real world, right. So that's another part of it. You want to have physical levels of civility. You probably have a digital currency. You folks save money. And then this community is able to then crypto crowdfund territory. And that is actually super, super interesting because you basically everything you're doing, you're doing online, you're doing the dress rehearsal for the whole community online, you're organizing online, you build up a hierarchy online, and its founding as opposed to election. Okay, or founding as opposed to inheriting? So one thing I think a lot about startups becoming countries basically, exactly where cities to start, you know, and the thing is, there's nothing nothing illegal about doing the city, there's nothing illegal about building stuff. There's nothing you know, you can all of that is totally possible. There's unincorporated land. And so it's you're working within the existing system. There's nothing in feasible about it, right. But it's a level up from you know, going from start your own company, start your own currency, start your own city, start your own country, right. So I think we're at the start your own city stage. And obviously, you'll learn a ton by doing that the city eventually becomes maybe a city state, right. But the thinking is, it's a new model for legitimacy, where it's founding versus inheriting. Right. So the East Coast of the US, I think, is very much about inheritance. So obviously inherited wealth, you have these inherited fortunes, but also inherited names, right? Whether it's, you know, a Kennedy or a bush or what have you. It's not like any one party or group. But it is it's inherited wealth, it's heritage names. It's also inherited institutions, you inherit a paper, right? Whether that's, you know, the murdochs, or the Grahams, or the sells burgers, or what have you that they inherit papers. And this is very different from the west coast model, which is founding, right. SpaceX wasn't inherited, right, PayPal wasn't inherited, Andreessen Horowitz was not inherited. Facebook was not inherited, these were built from scratch, Amazon was not inherited. And the thing about it is, when you inherit something, right, if you're like the 45th, President are the are the hundred ninth mayor, you don't know how to build that system from scratch, right? It's like, it's like an heir to a factory, right? They don't know where everything went, right? They didn't build it up from scratch. So long as it's normal times, the factory just keeps cranking through and your, your manager keeps cranking through the widgets go through, it doesn't seem like there's anything wrong. But something ephemeral, that's hard to quantify has been lost, which is the know how I know how to do it, right. So these folks who are currently running these East Coast institutions could pretty much never have built up from scratch most of them, right? You know, for example, organizing the US military or, or the Federal Reserve from scratch, this is the inverse

Unknown Speaker  1:37:29  
of progress as abstraction. This is the downside of that. So this is abstraction, then there, it comes down, but then we lose the process knowledge of how the system actually functions.

Unknown Speaker  1:37:41  
Exactly. That's exactly right. Right. And it's alienation from how that was actually done. Right? You don't you start to just think, Okay, this will endure because it always has, and always well, it's hundreds of years old and blah, blah, blah, right. But I don't think that many institutions that predated the internet will easily survive the internet. That's another one liner if you want, right. So these inherited institutions are in competent and increasingly, you know, less considered less legitimate, right? There's like loss of faith in banks. There's loss of faith in media, there's loss of faith in politics, philosophy, within education, in higher education, and so on. What I think is going to be legitimate is an alternative model, which is founding as opposed to inheriting Why is this organization set up the way it is with a hierarchy? It is, well, this person built it from scratch with their own two hands by hitting keys on a keyboard. Right. And it accumulated crucially, the backlinks came in over time, incrementally. It was Proofpoint Proofpoint Proofpoint, right. You know, this person came in as an executive, this person came as a partner, this person came in as a customer, this person came in as a, you know, like a, like a well wisher or supporter. But they happen over time. It wasn't like, Oh, you win an election and boom, it's all yours, right? Oh, you know, you, you inherit something, and it's all yours, right? It didn't just like get dumped in your lap. It was built up progressively over time, as opposed to a big bang. And then another big bang, right. And I think that's a different model of legitimacy, which is a digital model. It's an intuitive model. It's already worked certainly for starting new companies and new currencies. I think it'll also work for starting new cities and its thing it starts with writing.

Unknown Speaker  1:39:20  
Awesome. Two more questions. Why is genomics important? And why do you think that it's under covered relative to its importance? It feels like a big secret that it's just being glossed over?

Unknown Speaker  1:39:35  
Yeah, so, I mean, first, the reason genomics is important is that your genome is your OS. Right. So that is your operating system. And we now can read the source code for that you can actually look at that on the computer and you can see how your genes helped determine your your body your metabolism, you know, your your makeup, and you can click those genes and you can See whether you can metabolize caffeine, whether you're predisposed to this or that cancer, all this stuff is there, but you're kind of have to be sort of an expert to do it, I think it's going to become extremely accessible. And so that's number one is first, you know, for the same reason you have a Fitbit or a scale, you're going to measure yourself and the genome is going to be a huge part of that, number one. Number two is, once more folks have genomes, you can network them together, just like you can with computers. When I say have genomes, I mean, install genomes, where you've got on your computer, you know, you have some form some way of doing private aggregations, right? Because since it's medical data, effectively, it's private. But since its, its statistical, it needs to be aggregated to provide value. And so ways of doing private aggregations across people's computers will be a super important thing for genomics. That's actually where genomics and crypto intersect, right? Since you want to basically calculate things like how many A's G's, T's and C's are there on on different people for this particular trait, while protecting their privacy. So that's, that's kind of number number two. Second point is lots of genomes have a network effect, just like lots of computers have a network effect. Point number three is we started to learn how to edit genomes. So the first successful CRISPR therapies are now out there, where folks are actually curing things like sickle cell by editing genes, using, you know, restoring functionality, fetal hemoglobin, in one case, to compensate for the sickle cell deficiency and others. And live gene editing is crazy. That's like updating the software on your computer. The fact that that works is this enormous, enormous breakthrough should be page one headlines Should I mean, maybe it was for a day or something like that. But it's, it's simply not something that most people are aware of, right. And finally, genomics is a great way for software people to get into biomedicine, because genomics also encompasses omix, in general, which is metabolomics. And it's transcriptomics, and so on. So it's looking at not just your DNA, but it's looking at the small molecules that are floating around your body, like, you know, when you're when you're metabolizing, glucose, it's looking at the RNAs that are floating around your body when you're synthesizing RNA. And it's basically getting a readout of your whole body just like you'd get a readout of your computer state, you know, what's going on with the RAM, what's going with the hard drive and CPU and so on, you get that kind of readout, a Fitbit. But for everything, you know,

Unknown Speaker  1:42:18  
you could comment, I was talking to my mom last night, and she brought up such a point that the fact that nutrition labels are static is kind of ridiculous. That Yes, it was a look at a nutrition label. And the nutrition label should not just be this absolute thing. It should be relative to your DNA, your health and your biology.

Unknown Speaker  1:42:35  
Absolutely. In fact, you know, you could do that, where if you had a genomics app, and you barcode scanned a food, you could order a drug, you could see whether or not it would affect you. Right? You know, one thing about that is something that might get past the regulatory issues associated something this is literally just see a table of all the people with different variants, and what their reactions to this drug were. That's literally just showing raw data, you're not saying the drug works, you're not saying it doesn't. It's literally just a table of the raw data, this goes back to the ledger record, right? Where there's so much that can be done with decentralized data collection where you can start building up systems, because the information is upstream of decisions. It's information that defines what drugs are legal or not. It defines what what you know, whether we consider somebody good or bad, whether how many deaths for Corona happened, whether you should buy or sell something, etc. So the information on your genome is actually just one of these aspects of information that will help guide your decisions. The aggregation of all those things is another entry of the ledger record, which also helps guide your decisions.

Unknown Speaker  1:43:41  
Cool. Last question. I think that one of the big things that's going to become true, and this gets back into some of the things we were talking about earlier with media fund is that writers will go on to be millionaires, billionaires, and that writing is, like we've spoken about the way that you attract a network, the way that you start movements, the way that you basically get free marketing, advertising and networking for basically everything that you do. And that writing online is the internet first credential that you would get into university network that you would get into university benefits of going to conferences like now you get to run the show. Why do you think that media writing online, and we could talk about media fund here to close? Why do you think that this now has venture returns, rather than being something like a journalist where if you're an average paid journalist, you might make 80 $70,000 a year even that might even be on the high end? Whereas if you're like a very well paid one, maybe you're making 250 300?

Unknown Speaker  1:44:42  
Because you're no longer monetizing the content, you're monetizing the action outside. Right. So I think like this whole model that I'm interested in is open source media, which is to the existing media what open source software was to Microsoft, right? So all the content is free, you monetize As the community and you monetize the actions that are happening outside, the content is there to train you and to help you do things in the real world, right. And so for example, a textbook that teaches you how to do like investing or something like that is worth way more than the 50 bucks that you paid for it. Right? Yeah, I think that's that's the answer. I think we are we're basically radically under monetizing, writing, because we're focusing on making people pay for the writing, as opposed to using the writing to level up people, increasing their human capital and taking the cut of that.

Unknown Speaker  1:45:35  
I couldn't agree more. That's why all right, a passage is about writing for free, and then having the benefits of writing show up in other parts of your life. So given everything that we spoke about, is there any message that you want to leave the audience with?

Unknown Speaker  1:45:49  
Sure, you know, this is just a test right now. But if you go inside of it, media fund Comm. We do have a landing page there, where we're looking to fund writers who are writing about technical content at first, and we would basically fund you and then also take a cut of any investments that come through your site, and then you recruit to come to your site for some of our companies. So that's the concept of how we might make media millionaires.

Unknown Speaker  1:46:13  
Great. And how can people reach you, you can reach me at hello@perell.com and I will forward your email to Balaji what's the best part?

Unknown Speaker  1:46:22  
dming me on twitter will work for now. And I've got open dm so do that.

Unknown Speaker  1:46:26  
Cool. Thanks, Balaji. This was fantastic.

Unknown Speaker  1:46:29  
All right. Thank you, David. Okay.

Unknown Speaker  1:46:36  
Hey, again, it's David here one more time. Before you leave, I want to tell you about my online writing school called rite of passage. Now, it's nothing like the boring writing classes you took in school. It's made for curious people just like you who want to write more, think better, and use the internet to spark incredible friendships. And don't tell your English teacher I said this, but there's no talks of adverbs or conjunctions, none of that boring stuff. rite of passage is way more practical than that. See, I've taken everything I've learned from interviewing some of the world's most effective people on this podcast, and I've asked them how they write and then I distilled those lessons into a powerful set of principles for helping you write better if you want to start writing online rite of passage is the best place to begin. That's all for today. And thanks so much for listening.

Transcribed by https://otter.ai
