Disclaimer  0:00  
The content here is for informational purposes only should not be taken as legal business tax or investment advice or be used to evaluate any investment or security and is not directed at any investors or potential investors in any a16z fund. For more details, please see a16z comm slash disclosures.

Sonal Chokshi  0:19  
Hi, everyone, welcome to the a16z podcast. I'm Sonal. And today's episode features Marc Andreessen and a16z board partner and co founder of 21 Balaji Srinivasan, this conversation took place in front of a group of Stanford engineering students as part of the engineering Honor Society, tau beta pies, distinguished annual speaker series with thought leaders and technology.

Balaji Srinivasan  0:38  
Let's talk about one of the things I'm sure every student here at wants to or not everyone, but a lot of them, you know, think about startups think about technology, as an entrepreneur, as a founder as potential employee, how should students today, you know, graduate from champion think about startups, as in both the founder context and an employee context?

Marc Andreessen  0:53  
Yeah, so the traditional event, venture capitalists all have like a secret sauce kind of formula of how they think about what they want to fund. And then it turns out, I think the formula is all reduced to the same handful of factors. But the assumption may be a Peter teal, who has like six other factors in his head that he hasn't told anybody about, but for everybody else, basically always reduces down to some combination of market product and team. If you talk to people who've been adventure for a long time, what they'll tell you is basically the difference between venture firms, you know, in a lot of ways is based on how do they rank the importance of founder of market product and team. You know, as an example, Sequoia is legendary and prioritizing market over team, right, as Don Valentine has, if you if you go online and Google Valentine's talks, he talks a lot about how the key to success of a startup is to land yourself in a giant market, like lend yourself in a market that's about to become explosively large. And basically, once the startup is in a position where it is the leading company in an explosively large new market, that people become somewhat fungible, like you can swap the people out. And, and he would say, Cisco was one of the great case studies of that, which was actually a Stanford spin off. Husband and wife, team, very sharp founders. But they got booted very quickly, actually, by Don Valentine, who brought in professional CEO, john morgridge, who, who was phenomenal and actually built, you know, built Cisco the company. And so that's one model. The diametrically opposed model is prioritizing team over market, basically saying that, you know, the right market, whatever, can you really even know what the good markets are going to be? Like? How well can you predict really what you're doing is you're going into business with people either going into business with really good people or not, if you're going into business with really good people, one of the things that should make really good people really good as they should be able to find themselves, you know, good opportunity, right, a lot of startups end up, you know, they succeed based on something different than what they started doing. And so if you get in business with the right people, they'll be able to sniff out the opportunity. Peter, I don't want to put words in his mouth, but I think he'd probably prioritize product over market and team which is you have to be doing, you have to be making a fundamental advance in technology B can tolerate a lot of flaws in the people and he can tolerate a lot of uncertainty around the market. If the product breakthrough is big enough, he'll he'll make those other bets. It's kind of an angels dancing on the head of a pin thing you kind of as a VC, you sit around talk about this a lot. And then if you want investment company, you kind of figured out some rationalization, I guess, your formula to do it. So I don't want to overstate it, but I wanted to go through it. Because I do think that is the framework. You know, as you think about startups as such as either a startup that you might start or as you think about a startup you might go to, I think that's a pretty good framework, in terms of where if you're here as a student, or if you're gonna be graduating, my personal recommendation would be to focus much more on team. And the reason is just because I think we struggle from a distance to evaluate, market. And we also actually struggle to evaluate product. But if you can get yourself in business with really good people, I think number one, like if it works, it's great, because those are really good people to do business with and they can they with, you can build something great. But even if it doesn't work, even if it's the wrong market, or the wrong product, you'll still learn so much working with the right people. And you'll build such a valuable network for whatever you do next, it would also apply if you start a company like Who do you start a company with? You may end up in a situation where it's like, do you start the company with a super genius who's cantankerous and hard to get along with? Or do you start the company with the person who's like, maybe not quite as incandescently bright, but maybe as much more collaborative? By the way? I don't know that there's a right answer. I do know it helps a lot early in your career to be working with really good people, because it really gives you a gives you a sense of what good really means, and gives you the ability to learn.

Balaji Srinivasan  4:03  
Yeah, I would say one thing that we've talked about is that it should be exceptional, at least one dimension. Yes. It can't be like just pretty good. And all these different things. At least one dimension needs to be like truly 10 X and you know, amazing to make the bed.

Marc Andreessen  4:15  
That's exactly right. We talk a lot in our firm about with this concept. We say we invest in strength, not in lack of weakness. And again, it's one of these things that sounds obvious, but it's proof to us we pretty big deal. So there's a lot of there's a lot of startups you'll run into where you probably have friends who are at these companies or Nope, no people ask them and it's like teams, good products. Good market seems good. They're making some progress. I got some customers, the customers are pretty happy. Okay, where is that really gonna go? And where is it really gonna go? Because what's spectacular about it? Right? What's the thing that's gonna cause it to jump out from the other hundred or other thousand companies where you could say the exact same thing. So then you say, Okay, great. Now I want to I want to I want to test the strength. Okay, that's easy. The problem investing is strength. But the problem is running a company is that the strongest startups at the point of contact, what you discover is the stronger startups aren't strong at everything. They're strong at something and then They often have the term we internally use, ironically, as they have hair on them, which people always kind of surprised when I start to use that metaphor, but they often have serious team issues. Many successful startups have a founder divorce at some point like leave the founders go to war. And you would think that would be a very bad indicator. And actually, sometimes it's a really good indicator because it means that things are really starting to work and like it's time to get serious. And one founder wants to get serious and other one doesn't. Or you'll have these we some of our best companies are like stellar at product and engineering and cannot go get a deal with a customer to save their life. And like labor for years under the illusion that the way the world works is that if you have the you know, if you have the mousetrap, everybody beats a path to your door. And then three years later, they're like, Oh, we have to get sales people to go sell things. And so there's these things and they'll just drive you nuts. But if the strength is strong enough, they can really punch through and, and so much about this. And other another thing they'd be we're saying is, the default state of every company is just dying in obscurity. And so so much of it is how do you punch through? How do you punch through in the minds of the of the people you're gonna have to recruit? How do you punch through in the minds of the investors? How do you punch through in the minds of the customers? How do you punch through to the press? Like how do you actually get yourself visible such that you can start to attract the kinds of you know, business and momentum and talent and money that you need to be successful? And so that that sort of model of strength versus like a weakness, I think, is pretty important.

Balaji Srinivasan  6:12  
every startup and every project starts as a, as a hallucination, right? Like it's a it's a word on a napkin, it literally doesn't mean anything. And you have to believe it can become much bigger than it is. And always, at every stage, it has to become, you have to believe it's bigger than this.

Marc Andreessen  6:25  
Okay, so. But by the way, it means in our business, it means in our business, we're doing something right, there's something basically horribly wrong with every company we fund. One of the reasons like investment banks, or the hedge funds don't just come in and do venture capital, is because they're just horrified at every single investment we do. The one saving grace that we have with that model is a portfolio. So we get to make, you know, basically 30 grossly irresponsible bets, right in a portfolio. And then basically, the math is if we're doing our job, right, 15 work and 15 don't. And in almost any other area of investing or any other area of business, if you have that kind of failure rate, right, with that kind of risk level per decision, you would just throw up and go home, if there's one edge that we have is the ability to kind of indulge in these situations where the strength is crazy, but the weaknesses are also, frankly, crazy.

Balaji Srinivasan  7:04  
Yeah, I mean, like, the thing is, if it gets de risked all the way, then it's just a safe investment. And there's very little upside. But I think that also holds for technology in the sense that if you read about something in the Wall Street Journal, or the New York Times and technologies on everybody's lips, it's probably not always but it's probably started to, you know, have some of the value taken out of it in the sense that there's a lot of companies that are already built in the space is very competitive. And the technology to look for are often the ones that haven't gotten a lot of press yet, you know, that are near Inception that are in the labs of

Marc Andreessen  7:29  
places like Stanford, if it's a buzzword, if it's something that's on people's lips, if there's magazine articles about it, or newspaper articles about it, or God help us if it's on TV, yeah, the time has passed, like, we better look for something new.

Balaji Srinivasan  7:39  
So relate to the we just talked about how people just think about pursuing startups. But what does it mean for folks who are, you know, employees? What does it mean when companies stay private longer? And what do you think of as the root cause of this relatively new phenomenon really the last 1015 years or so.

Marc Andreessen  7:54  
So the model for Valley startups right used to be very straightforward, which is you'd raise a round, then you'd raise a B round to kind of build out your Salesforce, once the product started working, you raise a seed round, and maybe expand in a couple other countries, maybe add another, maybe do a little acquisition or something. And then within you know, four or five, six years get to about, you know, 3040 50 million in revenue, and you go public, it was sort of, you know, that was sort of the rite of passage. And then a bunch of things became possible once you were public that weren't possible before. So one was liquidity, which is early investors and employees could start to sell stock, but there were other very important ones. One was, it was viewed as legitimising event, especially for companies that sell products to other companies, it was viewed as an event that basically was, you know, a lot of big customers of technology would much prefer to buy technology from public companies, because they feel like they can understand the vendor they're buying from, whereas these private companies, they don't know if they're still gonna be a business or not. And then also m&a, mergers and acquisitions, they're, you know, it's considered a great virtue of being public is to have an acquisition, currency, right to be able to issue stocks. And a lot of the great tech acquisitions over the years were done with stock because you know, you get physical public, and you can use that value to buy things. Even if you don't have the cash. The stereotype is that everybody wants to go to work for a startup in the valley, I think the reality is a very large number of people actually don't want the true early stage risk. They want to go to a company that's doing interesting things, but they don't want to have to like go in front of the job in six months, if something goes wrong, because they've got like a family, they've got like a spouse, and they've got a mortgage, and they've got kids, and they've got they've got bills they have to pay. And so there's actually a lot of talent that got unlocked, once you became public that you could actually recruit. So those are the old days. Interestingly, in the US, the number of public listed companies in the US peaked in 1987, weirdly enough, and you might you might think it peaked in like 2000, or 2002, or something, but actually peaked in 97. And basically, the number of public companies in the US has now dropped by two thirds since 1997. And that has coincided with a bunch of other things. I mean, one was, you know, we had the we had the stock market crash, and then we had the credit crisis. But it's also coincided with some other changes. One of the big changes, for example, a lot of tech IPOs actually were individual investors, right. A lot of historical investors and small tech companies were individuals who would read about these things and get excited and invest. If you just look at the statistics on this, that percentage of ownership of tech stocks by individuals has dropped like a rock since 2000. It's basically now all funds, right. And funds are inherently more conservative than individuals, because funds have, you know, they feel like they have responsibility to be sober. And so they're not that excited about the next hot IPO. And so the public market, like just a lot of the enthusiasm has been drained out of it, the markets change dramatically. And so it's it's sort of, you know, topologies questions kind of become in Vogue, or in style, to not either not either not go public, or at least not go public as fast as before, the good news about staying private longer is that there is something about going public that puts you on a treadmill of quarterly results, they're like, Well, you know, I'm not going to get on this treadmill quarterly results, where I have to hit all these quarterly earnings targets, I'm still gonna be able to do long term things. So the good news about staying private is that you can do these big ambitious projects over long periods of time. And you know, you either get them right or you don't, but you're not under any specific quarterly pressure to deliver any particular set of financial results. My view is that the pendulum has actually swung too far. Now in the direction of not going public. Like too many companies are now staying private, too long. It used to be that it was a contrarian view that you should stay private, it's now become a country, it's now become a contrarian view that you should go public. And my argument on why more companies should go public as at some point, it's good to not just have all of your results be in the future, but to actually have to deliver in the present. And at some point, it's good to have an organization that actually like knows how to how to work properly, and knows how to sell things to people and knows how to like have financial plans of hits and knows how to make money. And it's all hypothetical until you have to prove it. And I think a lot of companies that are staying private, for too long risk getting sloppy and disciplined. And in the beginning, that's fine. But at some point, you have to get serious. And if you can go for 10 years without getting serious, I think there's a real risk that you never get serious. So that's one and then number two, I it's become massively differentiating to go public. Because you get these big advantages, you still can then tap the public markets for more money. People talk about Elon Musk, and you know, SpaceX is still private, but Tesla is a public company. So Elan musk puts out this thing that the Tesla Model three the pre orders, and it gets half a million pre orders. And all of a sudden, everybody hated Tesla before because nobody wanted to buy the car. Now, you know, now all the investors say Tesla, because now there's too much demand for the car, right, which is apparently equally bad. And so he just announced today he's going to do a $2 billion secondary offering right in the stock market. And like, even in modern like venture capital, it's hard to raise $2 billion at a shot. Not very many people can do it. And so he can actually like raise that amount of money publicly, he can access debt. And then you know, you go back to the acquisition currency, like, we've probably been in a slow period for m&a for a while, but there is no question. There's going to be a lot of m&a in the years ahead. And the companies that have public currencies, they're going to be able to be the acquirers unable to get big and become much more important. So I think the pendulum is gonna swing back in the other direction. There's a crop of companies, good companies, definitely gonna go public. I think another part is also Starbucks,

Balaji Srinivasan  12:39  
and all the rules and then Dodd Frank and so on has made it quite difficult to be a public coming from a compliance perspective and the fixed costs issue that

Marc Andreessen  12:45  
Yeah, so there's this thing, Sarbanes Oxley, which I see somebody in the audience yawning, and this topic is going to make everybody on. And so I'm not going to go into detail, you can Google it, if you really want to learn about it. But it's the regulatory kind of threshold that public companies need to hit on how they deal with risk, and they do reporting and all this stuff. And the knock on Sarbanes Oxley has been exactly what Balaji said, which is it's basically a burden that falls disproportionately on small companies, because big companies have huge staffs of lawyers and finance experts and so forth, who can do all this stuff, but small companies that the burden falls directly on the management team, our partner, Ben Horowitz, our is the opposite side of this, having seen a lot of companies, which he argues, if you're good enough as an operating team to actually comply with Starbucks, then you're good enough basically to do anything. Like basically it not everything in it makes sense. But it sets a bar for what it means to be an operating business that's operating in a responsible way. So he I think he's actually flipped a little bit on that, I think he would argue it's actually part of being a responsible company, at some point

Balaji Srinivasan  13:35  
interesting, actually kind of gets into our next questions are going to talk about a few important technologies, one thing I've thought a lot about is that the ultimate kind of solution to this is going to be something related to the Bitcoin slash aetherium crowd funds that are happening now on the internet, where you have, the regulatory stuff has to be worked out about that. But you do have a very large potential pool of capital that people can use for this kind of thing. And that might be you know, this is an essay that navall and I wrote a couple years ago about like an app coin. So you'd actually start a company and actually issue a coin that could be used to redeem for calls of that service. So that's one model that

Marc Andreessen  14:08  
I just mentioned, is this is a whole new model for how to think about sort of crowdfire taken to another level, I just mentioned, the Dow and what that is,

Balaji Srinivasan  14:13  
yeah, so this is a pretty interesting concept on where so aetherium it's something that was based on Bitcoin initially, and is sort of like a more programmable version of Bitcoin in some ways. There is a thing called the Dow, which raised almost 100 and $30 million online in a purely distributed way, just with digital currency without any stock market, or what have you. There's all kinds of regulatory hair on this animal, and people can pull their money out of it. So it's sort of like a VC fund, where the LPS don't actually commit until they see the first investment. And so I think there's gonna be all kinds of stuff that happens with it. Nevertheless, I think there's a very interesting experiment and something which will probably be relevant for you guys. Not not this year, not next year, but in maybe five to 10 years in terms of potentially an alternate way to get financing for something. So actually, that leads us into important technologies, right, so let's get a quick riff on them one by one. So starting with maybe, you know talk about Bitcoin and blockchain and FinTech more broadly.

Marc Andreessen  15:05  
Yeah. So I'm gonna turn that first one around. So Balaji is the founder of one of our two big Bitcoin investments. so sure. Balaji how's Bitcoin doing?

Balaji Srinivasan  15:12  
How's it going? Yeah. So you know, like the Gartner hype cycle, right? Something we think about a lot we think of is this fundamental thing in technology that is there, you've got this trigger. And then people get really amped about technology. And it's, everyone's doing it, oh, you know, bots are at that stage right now. And then you try to actually do it, and you find it's actually hard, and then gets demoralized and they quit, and you've got the trout. And then it's those guys who stick it out in the trout and pull up over here that, you know, things actually happen. So that happened, like the.com bubble, everyone was hyped about in 2000, and crashed, and then actually built all these massive businesses. And it happens on like, larger and larger cycles as well. Carlota Perez, she's got this whole theory about why that happens. And it kind of happens at different scales. And we sort of think that's happening for Bitcoin in the sense of, there's a huge amount of excitement, like 2013 2014, you know, oh, my God, new paradigm, then, you know, like, oh, the price crashes. And now it's coming back up with a lot of like, the micro payments stuff, and interesting things happening this year. I think the blockchain stuff is actually right at the top of the Gartner hype cycle. And I think it's going to crash down like towards the second half, you know, this year when people actually try to implement it. That's where I kind of think Bitcoin and blockchain is, and I would say that, you know, in addition to our kind of point earlier about, like, you know, getting technologies that are that nobody knows about at all that are in the lab right now, I think the other kinds of technologies to really look at are those that people have written off. Right, right, like, you know, VR after second life. And so that's the kind of thing to look for the stuff that people think of, as, you know, dead or didn't work or what have you and find out why

Marc Andreessen  16:36  
those are very funny. You don't remember the first time VR get written off?

Balaji Srinivasan  16:39  
Oh, no, that's true. You only remember the second time I haven't been. Yes, that's right.

Marc Andreessen  16:42  
No, actually, you remember, the third time I got written off, I remember the previous two, he got written off after vpl got written off after the VR, there's a whole VR wave in the late 80s. One of the great all time hacker movies, one more man, no, it was kind of the peak of that cycle. And then we bought up VR company escape in 95. To do VR ml does VR on the browser. You may you may you may note that that didn't work. And then right, there was second life, which was like the third cycle, right? One of the things we talked a lot about is say to African principles and how we think about technology. One things I've come to believe there are almost no actual new ideas, right? Basically, everything that is going to be a big deal in the next 30 years is in a lab somewhere, probably here in a lab at Stanford. And so the Eureka moment is like an almost non existent thing, maybe every once in a while. But there's almost always a 20 or 30 year backstory of research, that often, by the way, turns out to be 50 6080 years, backstory of research before something pops. And then the second thing is just yet things take time. There's this concept called the AI winter, and it's literally there have been surges of enthusiasm and crashes in AI. And I think we've counted there like we're five AI winters dip between 1950. And basically 10 years ago, even the term AI

Balaji Srinivasan  17:46  
has only come back recently after neural networks themselves came back, because everyone is like, oh, AI is all rule based. And ml was the new thing. And we're having another mini cycle within that were like Chris Dixon, I joke that so many AI companies are just a collection of FL statements. And you know, it's

Marc Andreessen  18:00  
like, okay, which are very compelling on first demo.

Balaji Srinivasan  18:03  
I very first, yeah, but it's always on rails, right? And then we try to get it a little bit often it's like, Yeah,

Marc Andreessen  18:09  
well, yeah. And so I think it's a very important kind of fundamental point, which is it's not it. I mean, what's new is easy, important, but it's often what's new that where there's a, where there is a track record of intellectual depth that's gone into it over a long enough period of time that people really have thought hard about it. And it turns out that track record is almost always multiple decades, and then whatever happens to be hot or not, in any particular moment, is really not predictive of what's actually going to happen.

Balaji Srinivasan  18:33  
Exactly. I think, you know, in particular, there's two things if you ask me, you know, what, like to look at for startup ideas, and so on, like, So first, I'd say don't do a startup unless you're ideologically driven to make it succeed beyond the economic motivation, because it's actually very hard. But if you do want to just find startup ideas, there's this book, the sovereign individual came out in the late 90s. It's the most prescient thing in the world, most bestsellers, you can take the 300 pages and compact them into like a one page summary, there's actually websites that do that, right. Whereas this book is the opposite. You can take like a page and turn it into a PhD thesis. And what's awesome about it is, you know, we kind of think Satoshi read through the sovereign individual and actually made Bitcoin in part on that basis, because the description of is so lucid, but what's interesting is there's other pages of it, which haven't yet been implemented. So it's like the book of prophecies and just flip through it. Oh, let me do that one. Right.

Marc Andreessen  19:23  
So I've been the kicker of you know, that book ripped off another book, and another book, what's that? It's an older book called the twilight of sovereignty. Interesting. Okay. It was written by a guy named Walter Wriston, who was founder of Citibank, who spent 40 years in 40 years in banking for two years in like big New York institutional banking. And his conclusion at the end of it was it was all bullshit. And he basically wrote a book predicting, basically the rise of networks and distributed finance distributed money. This is like 30 years ago.

Balaji Srinivasan  19:46  
Yeah. So I mean, what's interesting is those a lot of those guys got the general direction, right. And then there was some aspect actually turned out to be much more difficult than they thought, for example, like autonomous robotics will actually, that's really hard because of the number of degrees of freedom and the probabilities. So But it's doable with enough training data. I think the other thing that that, you know, I think of like a Back to the Future thing that's very important is a thing called t bow sorting. So like a while back, we found this guy done in 1956. And he had a bunch of assumptions for this model of how people could sort into like, basically mini governments around the world. And he assumed like, okay, you have search, you have perfect information, you have perfect mobility of this, you have that. And he basically, like, assume the smartphone, they wouldn't put it that way at that time. But 1956 he assumed the smartphone, he's like, oh, wow, you can solve all these problems with governance and so on. It's like, literally 60 years later, you can go back, you know, just off this Raiders of Lost Ark stuff, and just, you know, go with it, right. And you'll sound really smart, because you can just like, read off the book of prophecies. But okay, so other important technologies. All right. So AI, right, we just kind of talked about this a little bit. So autonomous cars, drones, ml and software. What is your take on this?

Marc Andreessen  20:47  
Yeah, so magic is happening. And I think everybody here probably knows this by now. But something something has changed. And actually, what that something is, is a matter of some debate. And it's probably multiple something's but an entire battery of techniques that people have known about for a long time, plus, some new techniques have in machine learning and deep learning have really started to work. 2012 was kind of the tipping point for that. And now it's really building steam. And then it also feels like something changed. Part of the passage of time in our industry is just Moore's Law, allowing processors to kind of catch up with our ideas. And the rise of this new generation of GPUs that are able to run these are able to run neural networks, deep learning algorithms is a really big deal. And then, you know, we now have existence proofs of, you know, fully running autonomous cars, using deep learning, we've got a ton of as drones with deep learning, we got, you know, AlphaGo, the great accomplishment the Google recently had the DeepMind had, were like significant breakthroughs are happening, I would say something about very dramatic happening, but also something very real happening.

Balaji Srinivasan  21:38  
Yep, I would add to that actually, just data like because, you know, like many of these algorithms, you just put 10 x data at them, and they work and one 10th and they don't. And so like just the easy way of collecting massive amounts, right? Yeah. So VR and AR so you know, Oculus and Magic Leap and stuff like that. What are your thoughts on that area?

Marc Andreessen  21:55  
Yeah, so very exciting. So VR, right is the idea of that the headset of you basically are in a completely computer generated world. like to say the world is not divided into two groups of people, people who haven't tried the shipping consumer version of oculus think VR, stupid. And then people who have tried it, who think it's the future of everything. And so if you haven't tried it, find somebody who they just started shipping, find somebody who has one and tried it, it's it's a, it's a really profound thing. The other idea people are playing with is augmented reality, or AR, which is the idea of you still see the real world, but you have computer generated imagery, kind of populating it. And there's a company called Magic Leap in Florida that's doing this and Microsoft has a thing, we actually argue there's two kinds of AR, there's the kind that people are talking about, because they find VR too scary. And it's why all the all the all the news articles in VR are all like very emotionally loaded, because it's invariably a picture of somebody with this thing strapped to their face, right? You don't actually get to see what's inside the VR, you just get to see the idiot sitting there in the chair with the you know, the alien face hugger like this. And then everybody thinks it's funny. to a lot of people who find VR too weird, ar feels like it must be more normal, because I still get to see everybody. And I think it's actually a little bit of an intellectual crutch for people who just can't quite come to grips with VR. That said, there's the other form of AR, which is like if we can get air to really work, right. And if we can get to the vision that I think everybody in the industry has, which is get a pair of you know, very light eyeglasses, or even better contact lenses and overlay computer imagery on the real world. Like that is a big deal. Yeah. And there are teams, there are teams that there are a handful of companies now that have teams that are super focused on this and

Balaji Srinivasan  23:18  
two thoughts one on AR and VR, one thing to think about AR is it, that kind of thing can work, I think you can have what we think of as like the Instagram ification of many more things, in the sense that what is Instagram, so yeah, it's a photo app. But it's also is something that takes somebody who has no skill in photography, and gets into like an eight, because you got a programmer on your shoulder. And you know, he's like, Oh, you know, put the F stop there and whatnot. And don't you know, you know, gender ID and so on.

Marc Andreessen  23:40  
There's always at least one filter that makes any photo look good. Exactly. That's

Balaji Srinivasan  23:42  
right. No, actually think like, the next version of Instagram will make people prettier, right? Like I call it Tinder for Instagram.

Marc Andreessen  23:48  
So just keep swiping until you get attractive.

Balaji Srinivasan  23:52  
Well, yeah, exactly. You just got to filter that just morphs just a little bit. Right? Exactly. The thinking is, though, that Instagram vacation, you could apply to many other areas where they are right, like so the classic examples are your mechanic, and you put on the glasses. And now you know, every part lights up and you see the 3d schematics and you tap here to order the replacement from Honda and so on where you're a surgeon, and you can actually see the person's X ray superimposed on them. And so it's like, you've got a superpower, right? And that sensor, actually, you know, treats from your head while back. And then on the VR into things. You know, one thing when people you know, kind of dismiss VR, I always ask them, okay, how much time do you spend looking at a screen? How much time do you spend looking at like a laptop or a phone? And they'll say, you know, okay, maybe, you know, six hours a day, and they'll say, Okay, well, that's like 50% of your waking hours. And we're probably gonna replace a significant percentage of monitors with VR with something. So the 2d world, right? And there's going to be a new windows that's based in the 3d universe, which has totally different gooey metaphors. So that's interesting kind of company to build that doesn't exist yet. But that company, okay, so when you're wearing this VR thing to do work, not just to play video games, well, actually, most Your life is in the matrix. So that's going to be kind of interesting in like five or 10 years. Everyone's wearing these kinds

Marc Andreessen  24:55  
of things. It's coming

Balaji Srinivasan  24:56  
quicker. Okay. What should Stanford students be thinking about doing afterwards? Graduation or dare I say instead of graduation? That's question number one. And then related, what advice would you give if you're at Stanford right now? And which the student walking out of this hole do right now?

Marc Andreessen  25:10  
Yeah. So I used to people people used to ask, you know, so you know, so obviously, you got examples, Mark Zuckerberg, and all these founders who dropped out. And so therefore, you know, everybody should drop out and start a company. And people used to ask, you know, should I stay? Should I drop out? What should I do? And it used to be a very, I used to feel like a real moral challenge answering that question, because I felt like if somebody was meant to, if somebody really should drop out and start a company, and I told them not to be committing a moral crime, but most people probably should stay in school and actually get degrees, and it feels immoral to suggest otherwise. So I felt trapped. I thought about it. And the absolute straight advice 100% of the time, you should stay in school, finish your degree, not drop out. And I've concluded that because the people who are going to drop out and start a company are going to do it, regardless of what I say, or what anybody else says. And so it's a it's, it's by definition, it's good advice. I can't possibly steer anybody wrong. In general, actually, not only is a good idea to get the degree, the thing that is the most underrated right now, I think the the archetype slash myth of the 22 year old founder is been blown completely out of proportion. The thing that is underestimated now in the valley, frankly, Stanford is ground zero of this. I think skill acquisition. Literally, the acquisition of skills on how to do things is just like dramatically underrated. People are over valuing the value of just jumping in the deep end of the pool. Because like, the reality is, most people jump the deep end of the pool drown. Like, there's a reason why there's so many stories about Mark Zuckerberg is because there aren't that many Mark Zuckerberg, like most of them are still floating facedown in the pool. And so for most of us, it's a good idea to get skills, you know, at your degree or whatever. But then there is a lot to learn, if you want to, like ultimately start a company, or go to a startup, there's a lot to learn about how companies operate, right, there's a lot to learn about how to manage, manage, how to deal with people, there's a lot about how to manage, there's a lot about, you know, leadership, there's a lot about, by the way, finance, there's a lot about legal, there's a lot about marketing, there's a lot about sales, HR, like there's a whole skill set, like if you if you meet you know, they're really great CEOs if you spend time with them. And if you would find this to be true of Mark today, or of any of the great CEOs today or the past, like they really are encyclopedic and their knowledge of how to run a company. And it's just very hard to just kind of Intuit all that in your early 20s. And so I think the, the, the path that makes much more sense for most people is to spend five or 10 years getting skills. So the problem is going to raw startup school, it sounds great, but like most startups are, like really screwed up, like I said, mostly just died in obscurity. And I don't know exactly what you learn from dying in obscurity, but it's not very much. A lot of people are in startups that don't work well, they actually don't carry away a lot of useful skills. Conversely, you know, you leave school, you go to a big company, a lot of what you learned a big company is how to function at a big company, right. But the problem with people who've been at a big company too long is in the cold light of day, when they got to do their own thing, they literally don't know how to function without all the infrastructure and support of the company. And so I think there's a sweet spot at new high growth company or the company that scaling, that's probably the best place to go. And of course, you're Stanford, you have that huge advantage of being in the environment, you already know who those companies are, and you, you know, you have a pretty good chance of getting jobs there. So I think that's generally really good advice. The other thing that I would say is, I have a favorite book I've never read. And I'm actually I'm worried about reading it, because I think it can only disappoint me at this point, because I like the title so much. And the title of the book is smart people should make things. And like, as far as I'm concerned, like, that's the entire value of the book, like I don't even care what else he says, like, just for engineers, it's very obvious, like engineers, engineers should build things should build should build products. And that could be open source, it could be, you know, working with, with a cop, you know, with a friend of something, but like going to a company that's building something, but but I think the same thing is true of everybody else, right? And people build all kinds of things. And by the way, the things that people build might be art, right? The things that people built might be, you know, businesses, the thing that people built might be, you know, an organization inside a company. Or it might be, you know, a great, you know, explanation of something but tangible output is always going to really encourage people like when in doubt, fall back on building something tangible.

Balaji Srinivasan  28:55  
Yeah. And like, we got the thing at Andreessen Horowitz right. Like works in practice, not in theory. Yeah. So much stuff that I saw, you know, as a scientist, a PhD at Stanford, worked in theory, but just not in practice. And there's lots of stuff that's just the converse, and only if you actually build it, you see that? Why did you and Ben then decide to start a VC fund rather than doing another sharp?

Marc Andreessen  29:13  
Yeah. So while we were customers of venture capital, or at least I thought about it that way, they thought they were giving us the money. I thought, I thought we were the customer. We had maybe occasional disagreements about that. And so we were customers of venture capital. I first raised venture capital in 1995, with my partner, Jim Clark, from john Doerr, who was actually you know, an excellent VC for us at Netscape. And then we raised money from benchmark and in 99, for a lot of cloud that went really well. And then between Ben and I, we also helped probably 100 friends of ours over the course of sort of a 15 year period, raise venture capital, you know, we were angel investors, or we would just, we would help our friends go through it. And so we kind of you kind of you'd like I was like, almost go to the same department store every day for 15 years or something. After a while, you're like, you know, I think maybe I could do this. And I think maybe I have a few ideas from being on that side of the table. So we started really thinking about entering the business. And then we thought really hard about, you know, the traditional way to enter venture capitalists to join an existing firm, because the history of venture capital is that the successful firms have all been around for 30 or 40 years. And we consider that and then we basically got bit by the startup bug me for the four and a half time, and we decided that it was actually good a good idea for a startup, we spent about a year and a half actually thinking about Andreessen Horowitz as a startup. And we spent a lot of time studying the models and talking to people who had been in the industry for a long time, and we ultimately resolved on what we thought could be two big differences. One was actually a little bit of a Back to the Future thing, which is, we decided that the general partners and Andreessen Horowitz would all be people who had been founders or CEOs, or both of tech startups. And that kind of sounds like it might be obvious, like if you're gonna if you're gonna have somebody in your board, and they're going to give you advice on what to do in your company, but maybe it would be helpful if they had actually done it before. It actually turns out first of all, it had been a good idea in the 60s and 70s, at the top VCs in the 60s and 70s. When venture capital was created, had for the most part all been operators and they had been legendary characters. Jean Kleiner had been one of the famously one of the Fairchild, one of the original Fairchild people, one of the famous traitorous eight, left Shockley to start, Fairchild left Fairchild to start Intel. Time, Perkins had actually been a general manager at Hewlett Packard, which was actually at the time a source of a lot of the CEOs of the new companies in the valley. And actually himself had been a founder, they started a laser company, and which was the kind of thing people did in the 1960s. And he actually raised venture capital himself as it was the founder, Don Valentine, you guys had I think, Mike Moore's here last year, the founders of Sequoia Capital, Don Valentine, Peter Lamont, both of whom are famous chip executives, and entrepreneurs. And so it actually was how venture capital got formed. Our analysis was basically over the course of time, venture capital, out of the traditional venture capital firms had evolved, where the successors to the founders were, were, in many cases, very successful investors, but were people who had not started and built companies themselves. And so we kind of decided to bring that idea back. The other big idea that we had that we've really pushed hard is the idea of giving founders and especially founders who have not been CEO before, we've used the term sort of give the founder superpowers in the form of basically the world's best network. And this is an observation that we made when we, you know, we've seen over the years, we've seen founders start companies, and then at some point, the founder gets fired, and you bring in a professional CEO, one of the questions we always had is what what's the catalyzing thing that causes the founder to get fired? And then what is the new what is the professional CEO and professional CEOs always? It's always a type, right? It's always like, you know, square shoulders, blue suit, six foot two great hair, fantastic teeth, like it's a type. And what are the these professional CEOs have? The founders didn't have, actually, some of it is they have experience running a company. And we think we can help with that. But the other part is they have these, these networks, they've been in the industry for 20 years longer. They've got 20 years worth of basically network built up, right. And so they know customers, and they know, other investors, and they know all the big tech companies. And if the company used to get sold in all the buyers, and they know all the reporters who cover the space, and they know all the if it's a regulated business, they know the government regulators. And so they just they have these these giant networks that they built. So we decided to do and our firm is basically essentially pre builds the best possible network that any that any startup could have. And that basically let our founders plug into it and basically get the superpower of having a giant network. The way that we did that is we actually have we have a very kind of non traditional structure, we have full time professionals in our firm who are not general partners, or investing partners, or operating partners in six teams that build and run networks across categories, customers, investors, acquires executive talent, engineering, talent, PR, and now policy and regulatory affairs. So we've got 85 people in the office every single day. And what they're doing is they're basically building a grooming network, a network on behalf of the firm, which then works on behalf of, of all the portfolio companies. And starts is actually a network as a service.

Balaji Srinivasan  33:39  
Yeah. So then, one, one interesting point of a16z was actually started in, you know, Oh, 809. It's been like seven years now. Right. And industry has changed. You know, the firm has changed VC more broadly has changed. What are your thoughts on kind of that evolution,

Marc Andreessen  33:53  
but I would say there's been more change, there's been more change in venture capital in the last seven years than probably in the preceding 20. And I'd also argue there's probably been more change in the tech industry in the last seven years than probably the preceding at least 15 or 20. There's a bunch of new firms now that people are starting, that are exciting. Another thing is seed investors, seed investors, angel investors have always been important, like a big part of the history of the valley is the willingness of people who have made a, you know, some amount of money to write a check and sort of fund the next idea. And you know, a lot of the original a lot of the original companies in the valley there was Angel money involved. So angels have always played a very critical role. In the last seven or eight years, it feels like a lot of the angels actually have become fat professionalized. And when they do that, they renamed themselves angel investors to seed seed investors. Because Angel kind of implies an individual, whereas seed kind of represents a sort of an investable asset class. And so a lot of the best angels have now actually raised funds, instead of just investing out of their own pocket and they actually run the seed firms. And so actually, we see kind of a restructuring happened in the industry where a lot of companies companies used to just raise venture capital as their first round, they would just go straight and raise a series A and you can either raise in series, err, you couldn't, but it was only a very small percentage of founders could raise in a round right out The gate, you know, these days, it's much more common to raise a seed round, you know, raise 500,000, or a million or even $2 million as a seed round and then go for a year or two or three, well before you actually have to raise venture capital. In fact, the seed phenomenon has now gotten so widespread that now the seed investors are trying to differentiate against each other. So now there's now there, see, there's also a pre seed. There's also a seed extensions, there's post seed, there's early a, and then actually below all of that there's incubator accelerator kind of phenomenon. And so we'll actually some will actually sometimes meet companies that have raised like, five rounds of seed capital in different forms. And so there's just a lot more support in the infrastructure for a much larger number of new companies. I think that maps to what's happened in the industry over the last seven or eight years, which I think is really remarkable. And either we're just taking it for granted, or we haven't really wrapped our heads around it, which is the valley that the history of the valley for, you know, 50 years from so 1960s through the mid 2000s, you know, the value was kind of the best place in the world building, you know, literally computers, but so chips, and then computers, and then software that runs on computers, but fundamentally building tools, right computers or software as tools. And then we would you know, these giant companies, Oracle and sun and Cisco and so on, we would build these great tools, and then we would sell them to the customers and the customer might be a consumer at home. But the customer more often was a big bank, right, or a big insurance company or, you know, a hotel chain or somebody like that, our car company, in the last seven or eight years post the financial crisis, something has changed, either the valley is about to grow to become a lot bigger and more important than than the Valley has ever been. Or we are completely smoking crack. Many Valley companies still build technology and sell the technology as tools. But a lot of the best new Valley companies build technology and use it as a wedge to enter an end market. Right. And so as an example, the predecessor company to Uber was not, you know, a ride sharing service that failed. The predecessor company was a little boutique software company that built dispatch software that got sold to taxi cab operators, right. And there actually were companies that were in that business, it just it was a tiny little business. Because it turns out taxicab operators actually aren't that excited about adopting new technology, they don't buy very much it, they don't buy very much software. If they did buy software, they wouldn't know what to do with it. And so that was just never a very big business. And so Uber and Lyft just come in and basically say, let's just do it, let's just provide the ride. Let's take completely complete responsibility for the customer service. Elan Musk, of course, has pushed this to its logical conclusion, which is, you know, why not just build the car. I think that Ilan gives tremendous credit both for the car company and the rocket ship company, both of which are things that nobody 10 years ago, thought was possible to build either kind of thing as a new company. And it turns out that it is, it feels like the valley is really expanding, basically, certainly expanding ambition and quite possibly, we believe expanding a capability to be able to actually go directly into a lot of markets, that historically you would have viewed as you know, much more of the province of existing banks or existing car companies or existing incumbents.

Balaji Srinivasan  37:43  
I think a big part of that is actually the fact that if you're selling it to somebody versus actually using it yourself, you can just recognize the benefits. You know, more obviously, like, if you got your entire thing in a database, well, you can push out like a report of all right times, and so on and so forth. And they can understand think about data, but the customer wouldn't necessarily do that. That's a major efficiency.

Marc Andreessen  38:01  
If you're selling technology to a company that's an implementing, it's a layer of indirection, and there are companies. I mean, look, there's, you know, Oracle got built to do this, and a lot of Oracle customers have gotten great results with Oracle and salesforce.com just had a great quarter. And, you know, they you know, they sell their stuff to lots of companies with big sales forces who do great with it. So it works. But yeah, there we see this, where that sort of the term we use is full stack, which is sort of see there's a particular magic executive algae's point, there's a magic that kicks in when you actually have complete responsibility for the end customer experience and how the product or service is delivered. And then especially these days, right, in the in the in the era of big data, and machine learning and all these things, there are things that you can do to optimize both experience and then ultimately the economic model of the business. It's become a very open question or a topic. Okay, so how many industries are opening up where you could possibly do you know, the equivalent of an Uber, Airbnb or a Tesla in these industries? From the valley?

Balaji Srinivasan  38:50  
I guess let's start questions. Yeah. Hi. So for a first time founder who's bootstrapping a v1 product, when do you think is the most appropriate time to first approach investors? And what level? is having a business plan and a team reasonable prototype to show potential or demonstrable customer traction? Thank you.

Marc Andreessen  39:11  
Yes. So it's hard to give general advice because it really depends. But unquestionably it's better to have something working coming in or something working as a gigantic edge over coming in with nothing working right like a huge edge, even by the way for people who have done it before. People who have successfully ran companies before coming on something working as a really big deal. And then it is like absolute magic. I mean, it's like catnip to VCs. If you can walk in and you've already got both the product and customers just rub it on us, it'll drive us crazy. And this is another thing probably what's overestimated right now is just raising lots of money to be able to save raise lots of money probably was underestimated is the bootstrapping process of getting in position with the core thing that you're doing and both the product itself and its value to customers before you start raising a lot of money.

Balaji Srinivasan  39:50  
And with that, customer traction and VP already like what level

Marc Andreessen  39:54  
Angel seed a if you're a first time founder, a first time founder, it's almost always better to start with angels or with the early Seed investors, it's again, contrary to myth and archetype. It's very hard for the first time founder to write straight raise, raise a straight A round. It's almost always the case that they're coming up through through seed. I mean, as an example, you know, Mark Zuckerberg raised literally Angel money from Peter teal, who was how he got started, he didn't go up, he didn't go and raise money out of the gate, the Sergey and Larry, same thing, they raised Angel money. And so I think that that's almost always the best thing for a first time founder. Thank you.

Audience  40:22  
Yeah, you mentioned all the progress in a new input output and all the language processing. So I have a very, if you had to pick in 30 years, what's the chance that we have a bot that does a better job in picking companies then Andreessen Horowitz,

Marc Andreessen  40:40  
I hope to god we invest in it, because it'll be the last investment we ever make. So, I mean, this idea is this idea is out there, right. And so they're, they're actually people literally trying to do this. So there's actually a venture firm called correlation ventures that literally is trying to do this, or a version of this. And then you know, there's there are people who are like data mining Angeles, and trying to figure out how to do this. And there's there are other people who are going about this, the computer science, computer scientists and me with engineer me would like to believe this is possible. And I would like to be able to figure it out. I frankly, like us to figure it out. The thing I keep running up against the cognitive dissonance in my head that I struggle with is what I just see, in practice talking about in theory versus in practice, like, in theory, you should be able to get the signals like, you know, founder backgrounds, and this and that, and progress against goals, or whatever customer satisfaction is be able to measure all these things. Well, we just find what we deal with every day is not numbers, right? Nothing. There's nothing that we quantify, that we deal with every day. It's the idiosyncrasies of people. And under the pressure of a startup, like idiosyncrasies and people get magnified out to like 1000 fold, like people become like the most extreme version of themselves under the kind of pressure they get under the startup. And then and then that's either to the good or to the bad, or both. But people have their own issues, and then the interpersonal conflicts between people. So that the day job is so much dealing with people that you'd have to you'd have to have a AI bot that can like sit down and do founder therapy.

Maybe?

Yeah, I mean, like, my guess would be we're still ways off.

Balaji Srinivasan  41:59  
Yeah, like, just add to Mark's point of that, I mean, the fundamental issue from like a machine learning standpoint is, you have a very few events that are most of your returns, which are like these Facebook like outcomes, right? And so it's like, almost like a rare event detector, like the Large Hadron Collider, right, you've got all these particles coming through, and you have to be able to predict, Okay, which one of them is actually going to make a lot of money? That's number one. Number two is, especially at the very earliest stages, you don't have features in the traditional sense, like, you don't have a lot of really good data to work with in terms of prediction. So the later it gets probably like series C, or there abouts you have enough, you know, systematic data to work with, but early on, it's actually pretty challenging. I think, how are you guys thinking through your fund structure and the types of investments that you have to make

Marc Andreessen  42:40  
as you raise more money, and can you convince, you'd be like a winner take all market, there, there's a bunch of challenges to it, the central challenge is any top end venture capital firm that has a reputation that it wants to maintain, which is, I think, very important, can only invest in one company in a category, you can't, practically speaking, invest in competitors, the company you've already invested in, will feel its betrayal. If you invest in the new one, and then the new one will think if you're willing to invest in them, you must be very, like dishonorable that you're willing to betray your previous one. So it just, it doesn't work. And so like, the minimal number of venture capital firms has to be the number of firms required to fund the number of competitors, right in each new market. And and then we could debate is that three or five or 20, or 40, or 100? And, you know, certainly we have too many venture capital firms, like they got like 500 venture capital firms in the US, and certainly there are 500 competitors in every market, or at least, there need to be at least a half dozen dozen, you know, 15, you know, good firms to fund to fund the competitors. We would love to make venture capital a winner take all

Audience  43:36  
have a question regarding blockchain in light of the financial services industry. So it seems like there's a lot of like low hanging fruit and a lot of like, far fetched ideas that one could pursue using blockchain. I was wondering like, um, like, how are you like, what advice would you give for someone who's trying to see like, what is the best, I guess, niche area to target? When given such a wide array of like, potential use cases for the blockchain?

Marc Andreessen  43:58  
Yeah, so we actually shy away from giving advice like that. So there's two reasons for it. So one is there's a concept called product market fit, right, which has become very fairly publicized. Now, you know, right product in the right market. There's another concept called we call founder market fit, which is the founder of a company is that the person who's born to do that idea? And so, that question, we tend to defer to the founders, because we figured the really great founders are going to figure that like, part of what makes it founder greatest are gonna figure that out. The other thing we found is that it's very hard. We have ideas for companies we'd like to fund but we try not to talk about them too much. Because we don't want somebody we don't want founders to pick up somebody else's idea. It goes back to what Balaji said, which is it is so hard to make a startup work. You have to be so irrationally committed to it. I mean, this is another thing like startups are over glorified in the sense of like, people think they're fun like they're not fun. Like they're not even remotely fun like they're punishing as hell

Balaji Srinivasan  44:47  
i think is Bill Lee for Elon Musk is like chewing broken glass like shorting into the best

Marc Andreessen  44:52  
starting companies like chewing broken glass, it's like after a while you start to like the taste of your own blood. Yeah. very vivid quote. Yeah, but like it's so hard and it's so hard because people are saying no to you all the time. It's just No, no, no, no. constantly being told no. And then you know, and then and then your idea is stupid. And like, I would never do that. I don't have to do that. So the company is going to kick your butt and like, then your lead engineer quits. And like, there's it just like, endless. It's got to be an idea that they feel so deeply about that there goes to like Belgium's term ideological mission, it's got to be something where people feel so deeply that they have to do it, that they're willing to tolerate that level of pain. And in our experience, most people aren't willing to tolerate that level of pain for somebody else's idea. And so I respectfully declined answer the question.

Audience  45:31  
Okay. I see no, it just seems like for blockchain, like there's, there's so many use cases and like, for many of them, like the timing could be completely off. Whereas, for example, like for like remittance payments, like one could easily see how that's a very easily applicable, like use case of blockchain. So

Balaji Srinivasan  45:44  
I'll come on to this briefly. Basically, I think that remittances are to Bitcoin. But void was to the internet, in the sense of it'll work at some point, in the first five years, or 10 years of the thing, it's not high enough quality with the obvious alternative, namely, voice versus landlines, or remittances versus legacy or mid system to when i think that you know, Bitcoin, like Bitcoin, as opposed to blockchain, but Bitcoin is good for transactions that are very large, very small, very fast, very international, or very automated. And you have to try to envision transactions that are like 234, or even more of these kinds of things, to think of things that cannot be done with the current system. If you think of things that cannot be done the current system that are still useful, well, then that's 10 x, right. So that's one way of thinking about it. The other thing about it is like Evan Williams is thing, which is sort of vague, but it's actually very useful. So on the one hand, oh, a new technology 10 x something, what people haven't done before. On the other hand, Evan Williams, his thing is, take a behavior that humans want to do, and allow them to do it faster, better, cheaper, over and over, take something that was once a rich man's thing, and make it accessible to the middle class, or take it for the middle class and make it accessible to everyone, right? And so if you kind of combine those two things, that technology allows you to go and in a way that was not possible. So I think, you know, punten, that general area, that might be something that

Audience  46:58  
I co founded two companies that faded into obscurity to quickly you identify problems and issues and opportunities might take a startup, you know, weeks, if not months, if not years identified. I'm kind of curious why Andreessen Horowitz and others don't explicitly identify opportunities and problems, or even issue challenges or competitions. And so want to delve a little bit deeper, one of the things you've been talking about biology, more specifically is like the cloud versus the land and, and the increased, you know, software in the world, like the divergence of the cloud. And I'm kind of wondering, in that world, where ownership seems to be more centralized, there's there could be some risk associated that associated with that. I'm wonder if you could speculate about ownership in the future. I'd be interested, especially talking from a blockchain perspective on asset

Balaji Srinivasan  47:40  
management, and so on. So I kind of there's two separate questions here. I think the first one is, why doesn't VC pursue like an XPrize style model? That's one. And then number two is what happens with like the future of ownership, right, kind of interrelated. So the first one, I actually think would be very interesting model for a fund. The reason I think that's interesting is one of the points Mark made is, and is one of the most counterintuitive points about VC. No matter how innovative it is an idea that comes across your doorstep today, there'll be two more like, my best example of that is Hyperloop, right? Like a pipe company comes across our doorstep. And like a few weeks later, we have like two more that come in there. And what it means is that VC is all about filtering winner take all. So the more that you can kind of push the tournament to inception, the more you can push the tournament earlier and earlier, before you invest, the better. So prize model I think could work on the problem is of course grading the prizes, judging the prizes, all that type of stuff. That's one, the number two in terms of the future of ownership, I do think that basically, the interface to every physical object will be ultimately digitized in the sense that you won't own a car, you don't have it already don't have books, you have Kindle, right? And you don't have a house, you have an Airbnb, and so on, and so on. And all that stuff becomes extremely mainstream. And what that means is that actually, your ability is vastly increased. And right now we think of mobile as Oh, I can just go to Starbucks, and I can work from there. And it says, much as I could work at home, but I think in the next 510 years, it's going to be as easy to just jump up and move to another country, as it is to just go down the street. What that means is the more internationally flexible you are. So one of the big aspects of that, by the way is the bank accounts that impacts a blockchain aspect. One of the big things that's a pain moving between trying to freeze, your Gmail works, your Facebook works, all your internet services work, those are IP based, right? But all the nation state based things like your bank account are not quite as portable or as easy. And so those kinds of things, I think it's useful to identify all the prerequisites. So as a thesis for kind of startups to look at CHOP the things that anchor people to land, I think you'll have some interesting things there.

Audience  49:23  
Hi, This question is for Balaji. I'm a freshman studying physics at the University of Illinois. And I was just wondering what convinced you to continue on to do a PhD? And what are the skills that helped you on like innovation, entrepreneurship and whatever you're doing today?

Balaji Srinivasan  49:36  
So I would not do a PhD today? Because that's my that's my quick answer. So why did you do a PhD? Why did you do a PhD because I wanted freedom in the sense of I wanted to do math and you know, computer science and so on on my own time, right. But what I would have done instead is I think the single most important metric for you guys to measure is your personal runway. And Silicon Valley. People think a lot about you know, okay, how do I get an exit? Get the money on top, but they think much less about how do I minimize my personal burn. So today in the world, it is possible to just find a jurisdiction that is amenable to your preferences that is warm, that is safe that has good internet. And it's really, really cheap. And so you know what I do, instead of getting a PhD, if I was just doing it today, first, I worked for a year at Google or Facebook or GitHub, I would have a job that permitted remote work, I would sacrifice the advancement, to be able to work remote for the next three years or so on. And I would just save enormous amounts of money and live very, very cheaply. Every year that you work, you've got three years of runway. And so that's actually freedom once you have the ability to have like three 410 years of runway, and you have the discipline of the grad student, but the earnings of an engineer, right, so that's what I would have done instead. So I wouldn't do the PhD you can I think you can learn and self learn faster on the internet than you can you know, in grad school, I think a bachelor's degree is fine. Like, you know, like, I'm not saying dropout, or what have you right now at least. But I think you can do better than a PhD today.

Marc Andreessen  51:00  
So I've got a question for biology. Yeah. So biology is for those of you who don't have a reputation or know him. Tonight, he's done this very big advocate for entrepreneurship outside the valley. Very big advocate for a developing world entrepreneurship very big advocate. Am I still here in this case for for actually literally jumping from here to someplace else? I can't help but point out the biology lives. Where do you live?

Balaji Srinivasan  51:19  
Yeah, no, I unfortunately, I'm in San Francisco now.

Marc Andreessen  51:21  
Right? Yeah. Interesting. Interesting. Interesting. Give me literally like, if you drew like a circle around San Francisco, he's like right in the middle.

Balaji Srinivasan  51:29  
Let's say that sometimes you have a goal that you have, it takes a while to get to because a bunch of prerequisites that have to be met, right?

Marc Andreessen  51:36  
Because he keeps saying

Balaji Srinivasan  51:38  
I'm working on it.

Marc Andreessen  51:39  
Alright. He also knows now he knows married and he has a lovely little baby, I do I do that those are all anchors, the two of them are going to have i think i think they get votes, they get votes, my understanding of how this works, they get to contribute to making sure you

Audience  51:51  
dig smart. from China. I work for Google China, I am now a current student in the Stanford GSB. I'm really inspired by the entrepreneurship here. But I know there's a lot of like challenges for the immigrant entrepreneurs to start the company here. So I've been want your advice for the immigrants, entrepreneurs, especially for the first time,

Marc Andreessen  52:15  
right? I'm gonna turn that question over.

Balaji Srinivasan  52:17  
Sure. Okay. Yeah,

Marc Andreessen  52:18  
sure. I've actually tried to the immigrant entrepreneur on the stage.

Balaji Srinivasan  52:21  
Yeah, sure. So I've thought about this a lot. And I've discussed this with, with Mark and Ben a lot. What comes after the dorm room entrepreneur is the developing world entrepreneur and immigrant entrepreneur, and but especially in the developing world, and I think, you know, one thing, you know, depending on what country one is coming from, and so on, obviously, there's a wide range. But for someone coming out of India, for example, frequently, making $100,000 is like making a million dollars, in the sense of like, the impact on quality of life, and so on, right? And there's actually much lower risk ways to make $100,000 than to do a startup, which is just extremely stressful, and you're going for infinity and so on. Right? And so, I think we're gonna see new kinds of things, particularly as you get another billion, 2 billion people with cell phones, right like that. think we're gonna see new kinds of business models that are based on knowledge that folks outside the US and in the developing world have about their local economies, and also have maybe less in the way of upside, more predictable returns, and they're not quite as much of a you know, roll the dice kind of thing. In some ways. If you started zero, you you, it's easier to get to infinity because you just have nothing to lose. So

Marc Andreessen  53:22  
good. Good. Thanks, everybody, for coming.

Transcribed by https://otter.ai
