Disclaimer  0:00  
The content here is for informational purposes only should not be taken as legal business tax or investment advice or be used to evaluate any investment or security and is not directed at any investors or potential investors in any a16z fund. For more details, please see a16z comm slash disclosures.

Balaji Srinivasan  0:19  
Name is Balaji Srinivasan I'm a general partner at Andreessen Horowitz. And today we have with us, Airbnb, Digital Ocean and local motion to talk about the end of ownership. And so just to jump right in, you know, I'm going to basically throw out some questions, we will have each of our panelists kind of, you know, respond. And then at the end, if we have some time, maybe we can do like an audience q&a. So just to, you know, start things off. How would you, please also introduce yourself when I, you know, kind of go over? So, Joe, how do you define the concept at the end of ownership, and maybe give a little background yourself?

Joe Gebbia  0:58  
Sure. I'm Joe gebbia. I'm one of the co founders and Chief Product Officer of Airbnb. And we certainly seen this trend pick up in the last seven years since, since the concept launched in your living room seven years ago. I think that there's just been a general trend of what I've seen of the importance of have access to things, trumping what we normally would put the value on of the ownership of those things. And I think a great analogy for this is actually the music industry. If you rewind about 15 years ago, the way to consume and to buy and purchase music was to physically own an asset of that piece of music. And of course, we live in a world today where you don't need to own music anymore, it's actually more valuable to have access to all the music you could ever want right at your fingertips.

Ben Uretsky  1:45  
Okay. Hi, my name is Ben jarecki, co founder and CEO of digitalocean. And we're simplifying cloud infrastructure for developers. So the way we think about the end of ownership is, we deal with a real physical asset, which is server space and computing resources sitting inside of a physical data center, which empowers online applications. But the idea is that we abstract that data center away, we abstract the server away. And what we present is a computing resource that we turn a droplet to to a user. And what that's allowed the user to do is essentially use a variable cost approach to building their applications. And it's enabled so many companies to emerge in this new app economy and the new internet that we see spreading across the world. So people from emerging markets are able to deliver their applications faster as a result, they're able to start businesses, whereas before they had a huge upfront fixed cost, that was a difficult hurdle for them to jump. But as a result of the flexibility that virtualization creates, and cloud provides to these users, they're able to actually build a business and the barrier to entry into many markets has significantly dropped as a result of that. And cloud is really leading the way, we are one of the few companies that actually provides that raw server infrastructure that powers the internet. And I'm actually proud to say that in the majority of the servers that we use, we don't own directly either. And, you know, the banks actually own those physical assets. And it's not a real, you know, it's not a differentiator for us, because it's still the same silicon at the end of the day is an Intel processor. It's some memory component on some storage that connects to a network. And what we deliver transcends the the physical asset. And it really goes to create the experience for people that ultimately use that product. So we're actually the fastest growing cloud provider on the planet today. And that's because we've built an experience that looks like nothing else that's out there. So, you know, by being able to abstract away from the physical world, we're able to deliver a really unique experience to our users.

Balaji Srinivasan  4:09  
JOHN, you want to talk a little bit about what locomotion is in your sphere.

John Stanfield  4:12  
i'm john Stanfield, CEO and co founder of local motion. And what we do is we bring the sharing economy to the enterprise, we work with large groups of high dollar assets, vehicles. And our target is to get to the eight to 10 million vehicles that are in fleets across the United States today, in large organizations, whether that's university or private corporation, public corporation or government, we can basically walk in the door and save 20 to 30% on the fleet costs over time, which if you have 1000 cars, and it costs seven $8,000 per vehicle per year, that's quite a sum of money. So optimizing these fleets is done through sharing and through making the experience of sharing actually better than owning, so we focus on the user experience at the door, making sure that everybody He walks up to a car that needs to have access can have access. And then once they're in the car making that experience better than owning, so everybody wants to use it.

Balaji Srinivasan  5:09  
Right? So you know, one way also thinking about sort of the end of ownership concept is, it's a consequence of software in the world in the sense that, you know, software is about, for example, it used to be manufacturing a CD. So you wrote the code at high fixed costs, and you manufactured CDs at very low variable cost. And that's a very common theme, you know, Airbnb, digitalocean, and local motion, you're reducing fixed costs for people reducing upfront commitments, upfront prices, turning that into variable cost. So kind of, you know, how is that affecting people's behavior? What kinds of things have you seen both of your employees and customers? And, you know, what surprised you about behavior change. So kinda like the principle

Joe Gebbia  5:45  
the sharing economy is to look around and find what's going to under utilize and connect that with somebody who wants it. It's like, someone from the south just told me recently Oh, yeah, we've been talking about this for centuries. It's called need hay have hay. And you connect those who want with those who have, which we can do now in a way that's, that's faster than we've ever seen, thanks in large part to mobile and that there's billions of devices in people's pockets, thanks in large part to how quickly it is to get ideas into people's hands. And thanks in part to how much trust has been built up on the internet through social networks over the last decade, that can now transfer back offline. Right? So what we see in Airbnb is platform where you just put the pieces out there and your community comes to you with this creativity of, Well, sure I have a bedroom, but there's actually 4000 boats on Airbnb, we're boat owners are seeing this as a possibility to say, when the boats just sitting in the Marina, going idle, I could actually be leveraging that asset to make some extra money to pay off my my cost for that boat. There's also people with we're not just 500 tree houses on Airbnb. And one of our classic stories is this couple up in Vermont, his beautiful treehouse right in the middle of the woods, if you love autumn, in New England, this is the place to be he would always stay in the trees. They use the treehouse to pay off their mortgage on their main home. So it's it's about like seeing the world a little bit differently seamless with how to reuse the resources around you.

Balaji Srinivasan  7:07  
Awesome. Ben, what about you? What is digitalocean? Done? How's it change people's behavior when they ever got turned fixed costs and variable costs?

Ben Uretsky  7:15  
Yeah, I mean, I can't take all the credit. But I think cloud in general, what we're seeing is this huge shift from, you know, the enterprise approach to the user experience approach. And what I mean by that is in a, you know, in the traditional infrastructure space, companies would build out massive infrastructure to try to stay ahead of user demand. And sometimes they did a reasonable job of capacity planning. And we're able to stock up sufficient resources. And other times, especially in holiday season, or some kind of peak burst event, maybe a news story or something else that's relevant. That capacity may not always be sufficient for that spike demand. And as a result of cloud and this, where your you don't actually own the infrastructure underneath, you're relying on a larger partner, who can actually accelerate that, you're able to switch the driver, rather than it being the enterprise that's going on and procuring those resources. The focus is now on the users that are actually beginning to use the application. And the you know, you can, you can essentially bake an algorithm that reacts to that user demand. So the user is the one who's now beginning to drive the actual procurement cycle. And it's, it's been really useful because businesses are able to operate at a much higher efficiency as a result of that closer parity between what a user is requesting, and the deployed resources, they have to match that demand. So you know, the other interesting thing is that, because the experience becomes that much better, it's less about in some regards, it is a little bit less about the efficiency. So we've seen companies that care less how efficient they run each individual server, but that they have sufficient resources to serve as that demand. And I think it's interesting because their focus is finally like, let's get out of you know, the building, let's make sure the users are having an amazing experience rather than Hey, how do we get enough servers in in the building to service that demand?

Balaji Srinivasan  9:17  
Awesome. JOHN, so locomotion, you take a company's fleet, you turned it into something where anybody can drive any car? How does that change the look? behaviors?

John Stanfield  9:25  
Yeah, for us, it's a little different because the fleet operators generally have the assets already, either ownership or Elisa sign, so the money's basically been spent. So what we find really interesting for the future fleet is taking that fixed cost and saying, Okay, how can we turn this, you know, cost center, potentially into a profit center. So, if you think about a fixed group of vehicles, there's a very determinant time that it's used during the day. And you can very easily map that now with our technology in every car, we can show the owners of these assets where that demand versus the supply vehicle is when we can lower that, you know, just to at least the match to save them on the overall cost of the fleet, then we can take it a step further and say, okay, we notice, for example, in the French postal service that the vehicles aren't used after 2pm. And so we're talking to some of the innovation officers, they're saying, you know, aren't you start making these available to other entities or to the public and actually make money back on these on these assets? And that's a very interesting conversation, and really flipping this on its head and saying, you know, here are all these vehicles that you already own, why don't you make money from them?

Balaji Srinivasan  10:33  
Interesting. So, you know, each of your companies, you don't own things directly. You don't you know, Airbnb, you don't own houses, you know, Digital Ocean, you don't actually own your servers, locomotion done with the cars. How did you see your core value add? What kinds of things are you adding, you know, the time of the job? I

Joe Gebbia  10:51  
think probably for all of us, it has to do with like the mechanics of the platform. Like you really you don't own the home, in our case, but we do on the platform that our hosts put the home on and the platform, the guests discover and book those homes. So behind the scenes, it takes an incredible amount of work to figure out how to make the mechanics of something like this, like how do you actually get someone comfortable with opening up their home to someone that you've ever met? That takes an incredible amount of work to try to figure out. So I think in many aspects, we own the platform. We own the trust between our customers. We own certainly the customer service aspect, there's there's a couple components, kind of like the the railroad tracks underneath it all, that I think we better.

Ben Uretsky  11:31  
Yeah, I would just piggyback on Joe's statement and say, really, what that boils down for for us is the experience that the product ultimately creates, right? It's not so much the foundational elements that go into it, although they do play a huge part. But it's the interaction that a user has that really reigned supreme here. And that's what each one of our companies actually owns. Is that is that touchpoint with the user as far as they're concerned, you know, it's digital oceans, Airbnb, you know, it's a local local motion, right? And, and they associate naturally, that product with everything underneath it, right? So perhaps, you know, if I stayed at an amazing Villa, I would say, oh, wow, that was a great Airbnb, rather than saying, hey, it's a villa that belongs to john smith. And

Balaji Srinivasan  12:21  
so the branding mission, the platform, yeah,

Ben Uretsky  12:23  
exactly. And the brand really is the expression of the product and the experience and the user. And that's, yeah, it actually takes a lot of work like josa to, to really understand the users needs. And I think that's something that we really are able to focus on more so as a result of abstracting away the things that aren't really vital to our success. Awesome. JOHN.

John Stanfield  12:44  
Yeah, I would agree, I think I mentioned experience already. But I think the, in our case, the user experience, actually, at the asset at the vehicle at the door is is essential, because if it only takes one or two experiences, where you try to open the vehicle, and it doesn't open before you go back to using your own car. And that's a failure on our point. So we obsess about that. And that's really hard thing to do. It's a very technical solution, which we take a lot of pride in. On the other side of this, I would also say that the industry as a whole vehicle side of the owned asset world has kind of become very distributed, because of, there hasn't been a great deal of data flowing back to the managers. So they really have no intel on what's happening on the ground in real time. And so being able to show them a way to pull these assets into more of a centralized model, allows more clarity across the board from the people who are actually managing the assets all the way down to the user.

Balaji Srinivasan  13:40  
Excellent. Yep. I mean, one thing I would also kind of, say, sort of integratively is that, you know, the code isn't visible, the data is invisible, but very complicated guys writing hundreds of thousands, if not millions, of lines of code at this point. And that's not tangible to people necessarily. I mean, they're seeing it through the website, they're not seeing the complexity of that, always. So then kind of, you know, relate to this. You know, as you start, you know, having your purchases become more frequent and more small, you know, you're you're buying smaller increments of things. So smaller rentals of houses or are observers, community reviews, and that kind of thing become more important because you're making more buying decisions. You want to see star ratings in line. So you know, how do you think about that, Joe? The context of Airbnb,

Joe Gebbia  14:25  
I think that was a big learning for us actually was in the early days, like one of the biggest blockers to get someone to try this, this new behavior, right? If like, my previous I've always stayed in hotels, and now there's this new offering of a home And who's this person that's renting it out. So to get people to cross that bridge had all the classic ingredients of behavior change. And so one of the key things that we learned as to get people across that bridge was with social proof was really showing you that people just like you, ideally your friends, but if not your friends people who are just like you then your same industry, the same profession. They look like you like They're using this, they're having a great time. And you can actually track the metrics and see the cohorts of as reviews were added over time. How the adoption started to, to get into, we're in the middle of hyper growth right now. Yep. That all you can trace it back to like getting this first proof points of really positive reviews from people. Yeah,

Balaji Srinivasan  15:18  
actually, I think it's probably one of the first sites where Facebook integration was actually useful. You know, we're

Joe Gebbia  15:23  
totally Facebook integration, you can see where your friends have stayed, you can see friends of friends who are hosting, it just like, reduces the kind of complexity of like, do I know this person? We show you one of three ways, which you already do. Awesome.

Balaji Srinivasan  15:36  
So Ben, with digitalocean, you, you don't have the same kind of problem. And since you don't have an untrusted or semi trusted environment, where you're a platform, and you're mediating transactions to houses that you haven't personally vetted the servers, you've vetted. But the software that people would deploy on the platform is not 100% trusted, it's sort of analogous. So have you guys solve that? Or how do you think of your community?

Ben Uretsky  15:57  
Yeah, we actually paid a lot of attention to the community early on. And I think that's one of the big differentiators for digitalocean is, as we focus on the developer segment worldwide, what we found is that there isn't really a central gathering place where everyone can communicate and talk about open source technology, how to leverage it, and what actually best fits the the business problem. And the community that we've created a draws nearly 3 million visitors per month at this point, really talks about the challenges that companies go through and trying to figure out the right software stack to solve a business problem. So because customers are an actual, you know, just prospective users are visiting this community. And they're finding out the right tool for the job that's vetted by people just like them, rather than it being force fed and saying, Hey, you know, we, as the provider, recommend that you use x, y, and z, they're communicating with each other and saying, I solved this problem using this technology. And we just provide that central communication place, as well as like a rich profile with you know, likes and essentially, trust Can Can you trust this person's opinion and the more the conversation happens, the likelier you are to try it, and then going back to the variable cost. Since it is so flexible, and it's so easy to get started, they're much more likely to try out a number of different solutions for their problem, and then ultimately, land on one, the ultimate expression of that community is if the user finally comes back and says, You know what, guys, I tried these three recommendations, and I ultimately chose this one because it was the best fit. And so other users then learn from it, and it's a repeating cycle.

Balaji Srinivasan  17:39  
Excellent. So john, in your case, and correct me if I'm wrong, you wouldn't have the same, you know, sort of reputation, you know, economy kind of issues. But whereas would say, digitalocean, you'd use kind of the data to say install, or don't install the software and Airbnb and say, you know, rent or don't rent this this house, in your case, you guys using data slightly differently, which is buyer don't buy an extra car, can you talk about that?

John Stanfield  18:02  
Yeah, or in many cases, you know, maintain the the number that you have, and just turn the dial up on the number of users increase utilization per vehicle, which is really powerful something when your first question kind of, sparked in my mind was something interesting that we learned at the very beginning was, you know, we built scheduling devices and tools for people to plan their mobility in advance, and, you know, ways to communicate with users, etc. And then what we found was that most people don't plan at all. And so we had to very, very clearly communicate with the user in real time out the door. So when they walk out the door, and they're on their phone or doing whatever they're doing, and their head pops up, and they scan the parking lot, they see the option, and they can walk to it and utilize it. And that was something that was anticipated. But the effective, it was very surprising, because more than 90% of all of our rides during the day are what we call tap and go for people just don't plan ahead. I knew that about myself. But But I didn't know that about the the general population, which was really fascinating.

Balaji Srinivasan  19:04  
That's interesting. Yeah, I mean, like, one kind of common theme we can abstract out is sort of, you know, the end of ownership means greater mobility, glitter, greater flexibility, greater experimentation. So you know, you're not going to live in a treehouse your whole life or a boat, but you can actually now go and try it without going and buying it. And you can also try out a new piece of software and it's you know, even if it crashes your your thing or it's incompatible, boom, just wipe it in and you know, get a new one. And obviously, one becomes more mobile. So kind of becoming more nomadic, more experimental,

Joe Gebbia  19:30  
and kind of in that spirit, I remember like my dad growing up, always want to get a vacation home that the family could go to. And it's like, kind of in 2014, he doesn't need a vacation home anymore. He doesn't timeshare, a few hundred thousand, right? But she's from an Airbnb and other sites. So it's like that whole premise, his whole kind of shift that way of thinking has shifted to I don't need to own it anymore. It's more more important to have access to many, many options.

Balaji Srinivasan  19:53  
Right? I mean, like, that's kind of a thought of, you know, 1950, Nigeria was to own you know, the American Dream own large consumer durables. You know, maybe by To 2015 The goal is to own nothing at all and call everything on your phone. Right? So, okay, so kind of relate to that. other industries may be entering the end of ownership. You know, I have my thoughts, but I'd love to hear your guys. So maybe starting with Joe

Joe Gebbia  20:15  
Hmm. You know, when I travel, it turns out there's actually thousands of companies regionally around the world, whether it's in Europe, South America, Asia, that have taken the basic premise of the sharing economy and said, like, okay, we see this local problem was just connect people who haven't who want in our city. And probably the most remarkable one that I heard of, or probably the funniest one was, I was in Seoul, South Korea, an entrepreneur comes up to me and introduce him his business card. And I read the card that says, We're the sharing economy company for business suits. And I look, and it's explained to me later that in Seoul, it's very important when you go to an interview, to have really nice suit on but it's like a catch 22 because you don't have the job yet, you can't afford the seat. So this whole marketplace has been sped up and soul, it's actually doing really well from what I hear. So that if you have an important job interview, you can have access to millionaires, businesses, I have

Balaji Srinivasan  21:06  
attrition that I want, I want Airbnb or some hotel to actually offer suit, so you don't have to pack. Right? So this way, you could just fly over there and not pack pick up the suit. That'd be an amazing profit center, you know, and then you just go boom, like this, throw it in the wash

Joe Gebbia  21:19  
the mobile closet, and we'll

Balaji Srinivasan  21:20  
call it exactly that's right. And then over time, then, you know, airplanes could take away the overhead bins if you get enough falling, but that's the long term. Okay. Ben, what do you think weather industries are entering the end of ownership?

Ben Uretsky  21:33  
I'll talk about a little bit more broadly, I think what we're seeing is a shift from a conventional way of doing business where it's a closed system, and enterprises and companies are making huge capex investments into building out what they consider to be a competitive advantage, or perhaps not even then actual advantage, but a way of doing business. And one of the biggest trends that I think will begin to emerge over the next decade is as enterprises become more aware that these nimble startups provide essentially a better service a better experience, a better level of infrastructure, at at the same time at a lower cost, then can be created inside of a company, the daring courageous businesses will go ahead and adopt the new way of doing business because it actually doesn't benefit their user and it doesn't benefit their bottom line. And I think, inherently because we've done business this way for for last, you know, five decades, it'll be very difficult for many different industries and different companies of all shapes and sizes to make that transition. And so I'm not sure exactly which industry, but I think we're seeing this across the board is that as technology becomes more prevalent, you're able to really change the business model. And it's important to, you know, kind of get your head out of the clouds and really take a look around and make sure that the way that you're building your company today still is relevant in 2014. And it's not predicated on on a business model that was developed decades before.

Balaji Srinivasan  23:08  
JOHN, what do you think is gonna

John Stanfield  23:09  
be a very concretely for us, you know, large, high value assets, like dump trucks, and graders, and you know, things that are not used every day, but sit around for the majority of the year hookless stuff like etc. Yeah. And again, it's the same problem, there's absolutely no data flow, and how these things are being used and no ability to limit them or schedule them in the future. Another very interesting point, there's actually licensing. So, for example, you really don't want me driving a dump truck around. I think that's a bad idea. But of course, there are people that are licensed professionals that do that. And so you want to make sure you can not only know where these assets are, and make sure they're utilized to the best of your ability, whether that's sharing with Jason counties, or whatever. But you don't want people that are unlicensed, and unqualified, actually operating the equipment that reduces or increases your liability when you have, you know, basically, the doors are open. So for us, it's really about looking at the next level of, of equipment that's sitting around.

Balaji Srinivasan  24:12  
Interesting. One of my candidates for an industry entering into ownership, or that may, eventually is education in the sense that, you know, you have a huge upfront commitment of K through 12, and then four years of college, and then maybe grad school, and so on. And, you know, with MOOCs, and with Stack Overflow and GitHub and all this online help, you can start turning that more and more into on demand rather than this enormous upfront, fixed costs and learn basically on the go contextually, as you need it. So, okay, just and we can enter a q&a in a bit but, you know, kind of in a few sentences, what do you think of the implications of this space, this concept for people in the room CMOS, CIOs, other executives, what is the under ownership mean for their business?

Joe Gebbia  24:51  
If I love your comment about education, can we come back to that? Sure. Yeah. I feel like you can kind of see the beginnings of what's going on with education happening now. And Sebastian thurn Yep, share this crazy story. He runs Udacity, which is his online education. And he talks about how he opened up artificial intelligence course to a global audience, they end up getting a few hundred thousand people around the world, for the Stanford artificial intelligence course. And he shared an email, which I'll never forget, because it's changed the way that I thought about this, about a student, a teenager in Afghanistan, who wrote in to him and said, Professor Theron, I'm really sorry, I missed my homework yesterday, my village is getting bombed. But I was able to sneak into an air force base and get an hour's worth of Wi Fi. Here's my homework. It just showed the great lengths that people will go to for education if they have access to it.

Balaji Srinivasan  25:39  
Yeah, absolutely. So

Ben, thoughts on implications.

And yeah, Joe, I agree. But if you have thoughts on implications as administrator,

Ben Uretsky  25:49  
yeah, I think the, the variable nature of these costs allows, you know, a much greater level of experimentation. And, you know, as an enterprise scales, ideally, you also have profit that scales along with it, and being able to allocate a portion of that profit towards new endeavors, creating r&d Labs, and, you know, really trying out new technology, new ways of doing business. And figuring out what the future looks like, is something that's really exciting. And many of the companies that are staying relevant today are branching out and trying new ways of doing things. And so I think it's, it's important for us to look around the world and figure out the services that are complimentary to, you know, the industry that we're in, and take advantage of them to, to try new things faster, and ultimately grow our companies, right, because if you're not growing, then you're dying. And so I think this is a much faster and easier way to continue to continue that growth.

Balaji Srinivasan  26:49  
JOHN, what do you think implications of the space for people in the room?

John Stanfield  26:53  
Yeah, I agree. I mean, I think it's, it's very valuable to have all these, in my case, all these mobile sensors roaming around, basically, helping us predict how people move and where they move, because the larger problem here is, is, as I experienced this morning, trying to get here from Mountain View, is there are just too many people in a single occupancy, situation. So once we have more information flowing into us about how people are actually moving in real time, our goal is to be able to build models of how we can help reduce that. That demand curve, basically. And really, that's super powerful. And it affects everybody in this room, regardless of your position. It just sucks to drive on the freeway by yourself. And overall, we're, you know, we're trying to build a massive connected network of vehicles that are communicating with us and with the user. And through that network, we can connect auxiliary services, you know, push deals, etc. There's a lot of opportunity there to connect other services. But really being able to predict that that demand is, is it's time to do that.

Balaji Srinivasan  27:59  
Excellent. Yep, I would say, you know, my gloss on this in terms of implications for people in the room is any fixed costs that you have, think about how you can transform it into a variable cost any large upfront commitment or long term, you know, kind of contract? Can you turn that into something, which maybe is more expensive on a monthly basis, but that allows you the flexibility to opt out of it and then switch into something else as your business changes. The other aspect of it on the flip side of it is going to mean that your customers are in some ways easier to acquire, maybe, but also more fickle, because they're going to expect to experiment, and maybe your re acquisition costs will be non trivial. And that that's kind of a pain if you're a marketer, but so maybe an opportunity. So I think that's to kind of prepare questions, maybe we can do q&a, or

Unknown Speaker  28:42  
something like that. Hey, so I guess a question for all of you, whoever's encountered this the most. So as you've kind of developed the sharing ecosystem, somebody owns the asset, and sometimes that asset is owned by a bank or financial institution, sometimes sold by somebody else. And also, there's a whole ecosystem that goes around the asset in terms of insurance, etc. Have you guys encountered? how that plays into the equation currently? And how you think that's going to evolve to help support

Unknown Speaker  29:19  
sharing becoming even bigger?

Joe Gebbia  29:22  
I'd say absolutely. I think there's a whole kind of second supportive economy that's supporting a lot of the businesses that that we've started, kind of like an analogy. We work very closely with Jeff Jordan, and he tells us a lot about the early days of eBay. And, you know, there's a whole economy that started just around eBay to support sellers, right, like whole businesses formed just to support the whole eBay economy. I think you see the same thing with our industries as well. Whether that's insurance, whether that services, a couple of things that that we've had to figure out is like educating insurance companies about what this even is like a lot of them get blank stares when we first sit down with them. But now we've actually innovated on insurance policies and programs. So, through voids and others, there's now sharing economy insurances, not only for homes, but for cars and other things out there that didn't exist even two years ago. So I think this is just starting to emerge all these other kind of tertiary services that support the businesses that that we've started.

Ben Uretsky  30:22  
Yeah. Okay, I almost take the exact opposite approach, right. And when we look for insurance, it feels like we're dealing with behemoths that have operated the same way for 50 years. And so I think that's like an industry that could be ripe for disruption. I mean, obviously, they're in it, because they're making a profit, what really prevents us from using a platform like tilt or any any kind of crowdfunding and provide insurance for fixed assets out there, right? I mean, we need some pretty good statistics to make sure we're making the right bets. But it doesn't necessarily have to come from a single enterprise entity. I mean, that's the way the world looks today. But it doesn't necessarily mean that that's, you know, where we're headed in the future. And so, a lot of times, the services are hidden, right, only a very select portion of the population, or even the business population is actually exposed to those challenges. And so while it may not be that frequently occurring, there's a tremendous amount of revenue tied to it. So I think, as a result, the opportunities is is relatively large.

John Stanfield  31:22  
From my perspectives. Great question. I think insurance is one of those kind of, in my opinion, pain of ownerships. So, if you look at the 100, and 30 million families in this country that own more than two cars, every single one of those fleet managers has painted ownership, just the same as the GE Capital, or whoever has the large fleets out there. Insurance is one piece of that. Removing that pain of ownership is really what unlocks the sharing of this type of asset. And so being able to innovate and create new companies that can help us do that on a fractional, from a fraction perspective as essential. Luckily, for us, you know, Zipcar, and Lyft, and other companies similar in similar spaces have started to unlock that. And then for me, personally, one of the reasons we are in the fleet spaces, because generally speaking, that insurance policy is already established for the users that are on the ground today, using these assets. Now, when we start talking about pushing those vehicles into other use cases, then it becomes an entirely different discussion where that pain of ownership comes back. And we need a better solution. We don't have it today. So but removing that pain of ownership, I think across our industries is really is really key to unlocking the sharing economy.

Balaji Srinivasan  32:33  
I would, I would also maybe add, you know, to me slightly generalize it. So insurance is kind of about dealing with rare error modes. And the more samples you have, the more you can cut a deal, then to some extent, you have to just sort of blunder forward and find this rare error case, and then put a patch in after that, hopefully not after, like too much bad PR. And the reason, though, that I think we're pretty confident that the sharing economy in general, will be able to handle this is that, you know, if there's one thing that the internet does extremely well, it's very profitable, private reputation review ranking system. So for example, Google rankings, Apple's App Store, Gmail, spam, filtering, PayPal, and eBay fraud, protection, Amazon reviews, these things already happening in the cloud, massive scale marketplaces, where all the checks and balances, rare error cases have been set up. And you've got millions of people interacting and kind of sometimes trading, sometimes sending mails back and forth. But basically sending packets back and forth, you know we're doing is we're taking that cloud infrastructure and bring into the physical world. And now rather than packets, it's actually cars and houses and other kinds of things that are now moving back and forth. And certainly there are new challenges here. But the fundamental informational things are things that, you know, good software companies have figured out

Joe Gebbia  33:41  
the building on that the first lift experience I ever had. I was going back to the office in San Francisco. And I have to admit, I was a little bit hesitant at first, which is kind of strange coming from the sharing economy, but it's my first time doing something I was like, Okay, this is different than the front seat and fist bumping like, right. And the woman pretty quickly, I learned that she was also a host on Airbnb, how cool is that? So I pull up my app, and I'm like, I find her listing. I pull up her profile, and she has 54 Airbnb reviews, from guests from all around the world. And I'm sitting there next to her and suddenly any kind of anxiety that had completely melted away, right. And it was like the reputation of hers host transferred to make me feel comfortable now in her car driving here in San Francisco.

Balaji Srinivasan  34:22  
Yeah, and it's interesting, we've actually seen a lot of pitches for companies that are abstracting out that, you know, reputation from Airbnb, Lyft, TaskRabbit, etc, into kind of like a new report card. You know, like a, like a portable reputation score. So Other questions? I saw some other hands. Your

Unknown Speaker  34:40  
next. So this is a question for Joe. But the other panelists can feel free to chime in. So it seems like looking forward at the demand. There's an opportunity for you to actually give advice for where where there potentially is demand in a property. That is not well suited for Airbnb and even as a future purchaser that you could provide data to say, if you configured your house or did this type of remodel, you could generate this amount of of income and help, you know, supplement just like the person did with the tree house, paying their mortgage. I think there's stories down in for the Masters that people have really nice homes, and they rent it for a week during the masters and pay for their mortgage. So do you see that as an emerging data service that that you guys will will help stimulate people to convert to Airbnb properties where they have demand in their area?

Joe Gebbia  35:38  
I do I kind of see it like the the Congress has the burger index, I kind of see it like our, our bed index, right? It's like you can look around the world and see where there's supply and demand. It's like it's a great, it's a great classic marketplace, right? You can actually see where the supply and demand starts to tip for things like the Masters in Augusta, Georgia, or certainly the Olympics, certainly, the World Cup, which we just saw in Brazil, where one out of every five people in Brazil abstain in someone's home on Airbnb, it's, it's actually great for cities to in the sense that like, it allows him to expand to take on these types of big events, like the Olympics, for example, without having to invest all the infrastructure, right in pouring more concrete to build more rooms for people to sleep. So there's a whole level that we're just starting to get into in terms of pricing data and helping coach hosts on like, what's the right price? At what time of the year?

Balaji Srinivasan  36:31  
Yeah, this is really to think jelsa a broader trend, which is basically, with software, we can start to invert the demand function, right? Like you get data and other purchases, aggregate them together, not just here. But also in crowdfunding, for example, people, entrepreneurs cannot be told what is profitable before they build it. Teespring also, which you just saw, does as well, the product is materialized. It's abstract in the cloud, before enough people buy it, then it's material is physically. So that's kind of interesting. You had a question?

Unknown Speaker  36:56  
When we look at the shared economy, generally, most of the companies that have emerged and been successful in that space are typically startups that are displacing traditional business. So Joe, you with Airbnb, obviously, and Travis with Uber and the taxi industry, and so on so forth. In terms of a mind set shift that needs to happen in traditional companies like say Exxon, city, or even an institution like Harvard, what what do they should they be thinking about? What kind of mind shift mindset shift do they need to kind of be going through in order for their more traditional businesses, to start to understand what the shared economy both means for them, and how they can kind of start to enter that space potentially.

John Stanfield  37:37  
Some of them are trying to adopt through leveraging their brand. Harvard is a great example. Leveraging companies like Moog or other online portals and leveraging the Harvard brands really push that quality education out to more people, which I think is super powerful. So they're smart, they're going to leverage what they built already and, and try to push their brand out there. I mean, at the end of the day, you're teaching a physics problem. It's the same physics problem but if you have a world renowned physicist teaching that problem and solving that problem, it's a it's a much more powerful solution.

Balaji Srinivasan  38:11  
It'll be difficult for them to adapt though, is some will be able to do it but like it'll be like newspapers, which have the whole printing presses and stuff and then you've got a BuzzFeed that's coming in with a totally different cost structure. Okay, looks like that's all we got. So thanks very much, everybody.

Transcribed by https://otter.ai
