Balaji Srinivasan  0:00  
Okay, everyone, this is the a16z podcast. I'm Balaji Srinivasan, and I'm here with Larry Summers.

Larry Summers  0:07  
Good to be with you. Balaji.

Balaji Srinivasan  0:09  
Maybe we can talk about Thomas Piketty which 696 page doorstop is the number one bestseller on Amazon against all expectation. And he's been doing all the tours and and so on. And we've kind of like had our criticism of him on Twitter, but I'm interested to hear your takes criticism, plaudits, etc.

Larry Summers  0:27  
It's a stunning

thing and it

must reflect positively on the growing intellectual ism of the society that a book like that could be the best seller. It is a book that touches the Zeitgeist at a moment of great concern about inequality. Now comes a learning tome, proclaiming the gravity of the inequality problem. The response reminds me a little bit of the book, The Rise and Fall of great powers, by Paul Kennedy, that worried about military and imputing. Military overstretch as a problem facing nations. Right at the end of Ronald Reagan's administration, that book managed to miss the fact that the Berlin Wall was going to fall, and the Soviet Union was going to collapse. And while Piketty his diagnosis, is, I think, a very powerful one, I think it is pretty clear that the share of wealth and income going to the top 1% has risen. And there's at least good reason to believe that the trends will continue. I don't find his theory of the contradictions implicit in capitalism, and his theory of where the wealth why wealth is rising at this rate, to be a terribly convincing one. His basic argument is that rates of return are greater than growth rates, the capitalists just accumulate wealth, and eventually, all the capital is going to accumulate in fewer and fewer hands. And I think there are two large, problematic aspects of the argument. And then there are other factors that are more important to problematic aspects are that as capital is accumulated, the rate of return on capital would be expected to go down, what economists refer to as the elasticity of substitution, essentially, all the estimates, when you look at the proper concept of output, output, adjusted for the depreciation and obsolescence of capital, conclude that the elasticity of substitution is not that high. And therefore, as more and more capitalist accumulated, the share of income going to capital should actually decline rather than increase, which means what we traditionally would have thought that the process of capital accumulation is on net good for workers who can use capital as a tool. second problem is that in Piketty his basic structure, the savings rate is assumed to be constant. But people save differently if their wealth is 25% of their income than they do if their wealth is 25 times their income. And so there's an additional self correcting factor, the tendency of savings to decline, as wealth accumulates, that also operates to contain the very serious cycle that he describes his his a theory of accumulation by the fortunate. But what is striking, and you certainly see it

out out here, in particularly dramatic form is how dynamic the process of wealth accumulation is. Forbes looked at its 20 looked in 2012. And its 1982. Forbes 400 and found that less than 10% of those who were on the 1982 Forbes 400 we're still part of the 2012 Forbes 400 on part 30 years is a long time and people Die, and their fortunes get split up several ways. But there was all, you know, Mark Zuckerberg had not been born in 1982. So there are all kinds of fortunes being created. And I think a better way to think about the sources of large fortunes. And a better way to think about this is in terms of the economic processes that we were talking about earlier, to take all the middlemen out, and therefore allow the Creator, Director designer, to capture a larger part of the benefits. And that's what's behind entrepreneurial fortunes, in a different sense, with much better information systems, much greater capacity to execute the judgments that a CEO makes, as to broad strategy and direction, become a larger part of business success than they once were. And so entrepreneurial CEOs are rewarded heavily, not just in new companies. But in traditional companies. And in a world of this kind of ferment, there's enormous gains to be had, by being able to judge the ways in which things are moving, and judge who's doing the best job of taking advantage of the opportunities, and that contributes to the fortunes that are made in the financial sector. So I think it is much better to analyze any quality in terms of the fundamental forces of technology and globalization than it is in terms of any kind of inherent cultural contradiction of capitalism. That is not to deny that the phenomena are hugely important. It is a grave mistake to say that because an economic explanation can be given for wealth inequality, that means that it is socially Alright, to have so much wealth inequality, and a book that has set off so much discussion, and suggested so many lines of argument for consideration has to be regarded as a substantial contribution, even if the ultimate hypothesis that it stresses does not strike me as being the primary phenomenon at work.

Balaji Srinivasan  8:01  
So I will, again, like defer to you on the sort of macroscopic, but I want to come at this from a slightly different angle, and Piketty some of the angles that we've been talking about with Mark and so on to one of these, actually, you touched on, which is, Mark remarked, you know, it'd be amazing if we could find the source that would compound wealth infinitely at scale, right? Because it's, it's not easy, but it's possible to put in 1 million and make 10 million back, it's much harder to put in 100 million and make a billion. And it's very, very difficult to put in 10 billion and get 100 billion reproducibly. So the, you know, the diminishing returns aspect here is, is something where the micro economic analysis of exactly what's going on in these cases, I think, is very interesting. Because even just from a totally, you know, rational standpoint, people would want to be in those investments, right. So it's kind of one. But in terms of inequality, there's a few, I think, interesting takes on this one is, so maybe in roughly increasing order of contentiousness or interestingness, or mentioned ness, what have you. So first is I'd say, global inequality has decreased, right. So in the sense of, you know, Hans Rosling graphs and gapminder, and so on from a number of different measures, you've seen that because of the rise of India, of China of the emergence of this global middle class, if you take a global perspective, there's a lot of people who have who were very poor, who are now no longer starving and who are getting wealthier much more quickly. And so, you know, the fortunes are being created or not just the individual ones, but you know, China was in rags, you know, within our lifetime, and 82 was just four years, five years out of communism really. And so that's kind of one global inequality, I think is decreasing. Number two is, I think consumption inequality is decreasing. So, you know, that is to say the hyper deflation of a lot of different costs. Sergey Brin is a billionaire, but he doesn't have an appreciably better Wikipedia experience than somebody who just has an iPhone, right. So the if you set the cost of something to pennies, then or less than that to Microsoft's So that's almost free, or so, so cheapest to literally not be metered, and just bandwidth, then you have more and more things that are accessible to more and more people. And I think that as software eats the world, we'll see more and more of these things right now, you could argue that technology has given us universal basic telecommunications and universal, basic recreation in terms of infinite games and stuff on the internet. And we'll probably, you know, it'll be a question as to whether it'll actually give us universal basic education and so on. But things like Khan Academy, or at least pretty good, even if one could argue they're, they're not as good as an institutional approach. So I think the decline in consumption or quality is important here, because that's the other side of it. It's not just how much money you're making is, what do you get for that money? How much do things cost? Then third, which is, I think, when the also important ones, perhaps least discuss of these three, is what I call the decline in power inequality. Right? So for example, there's on the order of 1000 billionaires list soon Wikipedia, and one things I've been tracking is a fraction of them that are non Western, right, so almost 500 of them are outside the US and EU. And so that's a huge change, again, from like, the middle of the 20th century, right, the extent to which the US and EU, especially Western Europe, sort of dominate the world economy has just been, you know, declining and declining, declining as a percentage. And that's simply because, you know, even though they're, you know, like rising absent trends, it's not a zero sum game. The, you know, you couldn't keep all these other countries back indefinitely. They eventually, you know, kind of gone to their economics together, and China got its economy together in India, to a lesser extent, and, and so they rose. And so I think that, you know, inequality is not just an economic thing, there's a few more dimensions to it. And from several different vantage points, things are actually going quite well. Finally, I'd say all these things tie together, in, you know, you mentioned that you thought his graphs are very good. And I agree, I think there's a lot of interesting data in that. And his, but his prognosis May, you know, may not agree with as much. And I think that one aspect of his thing, which is, I think, really under considered is the proposal for global wealth tax. You know, soon, actually already, more than 50% of GDP by PPP is outside the US and Western Europe, right. And so I don't think it's going to be very easy to tax all of China and India's, you know, new millionaires, you know, for global wealth tax, I don't think you're going to get an accord on that it's hard enough to come to an accord on climate change or something like that something like this, I don't believe is going to be feasible. And that's not an aspect that I've seen discussed all that much. It's almost as if there's still sort of a time warp to 1950. When and so these are sort of the things that I've been thinking about with respect to Piketty,

Larry Summers  12:36  
I do think

that you may be a little bit too serene. I agree with you that fantastic things are happening in the emerging markets, and they're converging. But I think many of us in the United States are right to be concerned about what's happening within our country. I hear you on consumption inequality. But if you look at what is probably the most fundamental measure of consumption, which is health, the data are very dramatic, that the gaps in life expectancy between the top 10% of the population and the bottom 10% of the population have widened massively, yep. It didn't used to be the case that people with higher incomes lived far longer than people with lower incomes. Today, it is the case, the change in the relative life expectancy of a relatively fortunate person, say, an 80th percentile and a relatively less fortunate person, say in the 20th percentile. So we're not talking about big extremes. The change in the relative life expectancy over the last long generation since the 1970s, has been three or four years. To put that in some perspective, that is the equivalent of a doubling of cancer mortality is a three or four year difference. And so I don't know there surely are aspects. We all have the same iPhones we all watch the same. net, net Netflix, we all partake of Starbucks.

In that sense,

perhaps consumption experiences are equalizing. But it'd be a grave mistake not to recognize that what's more fundamental than all of that is health and life is not converging and is within the United States very substantially diversify at

Balaji Srinivasan  14:55  
minor kind of knit which is a group the iPhone and Netflix together. But I put Starbucks separately because that's a physical good. So it hasn't had that same decline. I don't think fair enough. So let's wrap it up but thank you for being here.

Larry Summers  15:08  
Good to be with you.

Transcribed by https://otter.ai
