Unknown Speaker  0:00  
Hi, this is Chris Dixon, this is the a16z podcast. Today, I'm with Benedict Evans and Balaji Srinivasan. Guys, let's talk about the there's sort of this recurring idea that in the press, for example, that everyone in Silicon Valley is doing spending time on trivial things, photo sharing, and, you know, funny little apps, and not working on serious things.

Unknown Speaker  0:28  
So Balaji, what do you think about this?

Unknown Speaker  0:30  
Yeah. So I mean, I don't think that's the case, I think, I think to some extent, there's a catch 22, where, if you certainly are people are working on social games, or working on, you know, social networking, things like that. And that, I would argue that some of those things are going to be more important. down the line, for example, gaming, led to 3d graphics, and it's leading to Oculus, social networking has led to other services, for example, like Lyft, that are built on top of it that are much less, you know, trivial than poking. But even taking those and saying they're maybe more important than people think Twitter started as breakfast as updates, and now it's used for revolutions and breaking news, even given that those things are actually not as trivial as people think. The other aspect, other side of the coin is Well, those are things are easy to start. There are applications in genomics, and you know, drones, and Bitcoin and 3d printing and things like that, that do run into regulatory challenges. And so, you know, some of the reason that people see these things that are perceived as fluff that that, you know, get big fast is that it is non trivial to build a business in the other area. So there's, I think, regulatory barriers here as well.

Unknown Speaker  1:38  
I would argue that a lot of this is also the media just just sort of what's you know, it's much is a function of the way media covers Silicon Valley. So it's, you know, if you look at, for example, so we as our firm, we're investors in Instagram, we are also investors, and I, Sarah, both those companies sold around the same point for actually nice, they're sold for more, I think, is 1.4 billion Instagram, depending on Facebook stock price of 702 billion. But if you go and do a Google News search, there were literally 100 to one articles about Instagram versus nicer. Now, Instagram is an amazing company that deserved the coverage. But the point is no one, the press doesn't really want to talk about software defined networking. And so which is understandable, like people don't want to read that that's fine. But don't then extrapolate from media coverage. That's actually what's going on in Silicon Valley. So for example, 70% of all venture capital goes into enterprise companies, which you know, more than half of which are infrastructure. So it's very hard to argue just when you have the raw data that 30 to 40% of investment is an infrastructure that we aren't doing infrastructure.

Unknown Speaker  2:38  
Yeah. I mean, I think you have to split out what is easy for a journalist to write about, and what is going to sell newspapers, what's going to sit well, to a general audience, talking about consumer products is a lot easier than talking about b2b products. And b2b products tend to be in the business page and consumer products tend to be in the news pages, and talking about 22 year olds who sell their product for a gazillion dollars, kind of needs to be on the front page, because that's newsworthy. So. But

Unknown Speaker  3:08  
that's fine, but then don't extrapolate. Yeah, exactly. It's the second order articles I object to not the first story, right. The second one is to then extrapolate from that and say, that's all that's happening. Wait a second, like,

Unknown Speaker  3:17  
Yeah, I think that's that's the thing that, you know, it's if you are not in immersed in, you know, the kind of the hardcore technology or the hardcore computer science or the infrastructure building that's getting done, you can't see it. Now, you can

Unknown Speaker  3:31  
see there, you've seen it, like just being here, for example, 70% of the time, we're talking about fixing healthcare, fixing, finance, fixing, you know, better semiconductors, better data centers, this is what most people are doing here.

Unknown Speaker  3:44  
Yeah, I mean, that's true. But if you're trying to write, it's easy to write about phenomena, and to try and construct phenomena. And, you know, there's no question that compared to, you know, 10 years ago, there were a lot of people creating companies with silly names that did, things that didn't appear to be terribly important. And that masked a lot of the interesting stuff today, there's a lot of, there's a lot of 22 year olds, creating companies that get lots of users and get interesting, you know, sexy valuations, that appear to be doing stuff that isn't very interesting, or in very exciting. And so you can write about that. The fact that there's a lot more 30 year olds, or indeed 22 year olds creating companies like box or creating, you know, macera or these other, you know, more profound, more fundamental businesses just doesn't get covered. So I think, you know, in a sense, every industry hates the press. You know, every industry thinks the press doesn't write about us the way it should write about us, and they focus on the trivial stuff, and they focus on the stuff that sells newspapers, and you know, it's always true. I

Unknown Speaker  4:42  
offer one other thing, which is basically like, it is certainly true that you know, they call it the media because it mediates our interpretation of reality. It's like a shimmery mirror and here's reality on one side, and here's what you read. And then there's this intermediating force, but in the defense of the media, one thing that is true is that consumer applications are tangible and used by hundreds of millions of people. And so there is a, you know, what people are familiar with what they perceive as technology is that which they can touch and feel and actually use on a daily basis, the iPads and iPhones and G mails and drop boxes and Twitter's and things of that nature. So thus, what they see is usually consumer and fluffy. Now, once in a while there will be something by

Unknown Speaker  5:24  
the way, but my point, I'm not objecting to the media covering it that way. I am objecting to as a second order articles, which then say that because that's what the media coverage is that that's actually what's happening, right.

Unknown Speaker  5:34  
So my counter argument as to why I think that will is going to change pretty soon is kind of threefold. First is a lot of those things that were thought of as fluffy are actually slowly becoming very impactful. For example, even as, like 12 months ago, even 18 months ago, people were calling Bitcoin an imaginary currency for crazy people on the internet. And now Goldman Sachs is saying it can save people $200 billion dollars. So that's an enormous U turn in, like 12 months. So number one, these things that people think are fluffy are actually becoming real. Number two is there's a lot more physically tangible things like self driving cars, or delivery drones, where whatever else you can say about them, you cannot say they are like trivial advances or that they will not be, you know, earth shattering. And number three, I think, which is the least appreciated aspect of this is we are you know, when we talk about consumer products, I think a distinction which I noticed in some of the discussions I've had with people on Twitter is the consumer producer distinction is going away. That is to say, that was a very 20th century model where you had a big business and would sell things and be consumers who'd be passively consuming it. But now you've got a developer who is neither really a producer nor consumer, they're building something for themselves, right. And as software eats the world, and hitting keys on the keyboard is a way to generate things of value for yourself, then people, you know, many more millions of people start to appreciate those, quote, enterprise products as they would use them to build things for themselves. Right. So that will never be the majority of people, but it'll be a larger, larger fraction of people. And I think that'll also change the conversation over time.

Unknown Speaker  6:55  
Yeah, I mean, you could do that the other way around and say that, you know, part of what you're seeing is that kind of the froth and triviality of popular culture that used to be, you know, songs, or pranks, or movies or fashions, is also now being manifested in dating apps or photo sharing apps, all kinds of, you know, silly, random things, you know, you know, people in their early 20s, quite often do things that are under serious. Yeah. And if they're coders, they're doing code that's kind of under serious. Right.

Unknown Speaker  7:24  
Yeah, good point. I think also, like,

Unknown Speaker  7:28  
in regards to sort of producer consumer distinction collapsing, I think, you know, one thing that I realized the other day is, there's almost no Hollywood movies that I can think of at least, that are educational movies that is meant to train you to level you up to add a skill for you. Right. And there are some TV,

Unknown Speaker  7:47  
education, I guess, in a narrow sense, I mean, in Hollywood, movie makers that are either educating or emotionals. Yeah,

Unknown Speaker  7:54  
exactly. There's telling a fable or something like that, right. But the reason I originally bring it that specific point is, I think, so one model for media, which people do complain about is sort of the pager driven model, which is based on an attention economy. And you know, it's a headline, and if it bleeds, it leads that kind of thing. And you're basically monetizing on just pure volume is Huffington Post model, the page view model. But there's another model, which is not monetizing a very large mass, but monetizing those people who actually really need to understand and comprehend the article, right? This is a production versus a consumption model. And so here, for example, you could imagine a site which is not necessarily about news, it wasn't about the newest thing always. But it was, for example, a site that say maintained an up to date thing, sort of like a Wikipedia, but better maintained on say, 3d printing, and all the companies there, and so on, almost like an investment research report. And your goal in viewing this was to make an investment decision to join a company to download some programs to start something to build something right. And in reading the second one, you did not care about the headline, because reading the headline alone was not enough to do something. So the real question is, what are people looking at this media with intent to do, we have a different perspective and because we have intent to do something, namely, make an investment or start a company, people are just consuming the media to be entertained, do not have that incentive to actually understand more deeply. So I take that the latter kind of media kind of media where you consume it with intent to reproduce or intend to perform or intend to produce, I think is going to be more important. And it's a different monetization model for media as well.

Unknown Speaker  9:18  
I would also add that I think just my experience is that more and more entrepreneurs are doing, it's actually the trend is actually quite the opposite of the media's impression, which is, I think we're entered we've entered into a period of significant gravitas in the technology world in the sense that Yeah, like, you know, we just announced our investment old school for example, which is, you know, attempt to rethink K through 12 education. You have, you know, Tesla reinventing the car SpaceX, all the Elon Musk stuff. You know, Uber and Lyft and transportation Airbnb in hospitality, like, like sort of you go through every major segment of the economy and you now have for the first time Silicon Valley style companies trying to reach Think how the traditional industries have worked. We're seeing as you know, Balaji ball, you're doing a lot of for us a ton of interesting stuff in healthcare. Yeah. I think we have a bunch of investments we've made that we haven't announced yet, but that people will see soon, we've made whatever 1010 investments in healthcare recently or so yeah. So it's very, very serious stuff with, you know, like experienced scientists trying to solve big problems. So I feel like it's the opposite trend is true.

Unknown Speaker  10:25  
Yeah, I think there's also like a gear change that's happening in technology now, where we, you know, social networks and games, and the kind of fun stuff will always be there. But we do have a gear change where it is moving into drones, and Bitcoin and genomics and 3d printing, and, you know, all the stuff that is very important. I think the other thing is that embeded can probably comment on this, just like, you know, by installing all these mobile computers around the world, right, mobile massively increased the size of the software industry, like sort of horizontally in terms of the number of terminals, and now we're increasing in a different direction, which is sort of the number of verticals that we're going into, right. So the size of what software is going to disrupt is just increased tremendously over the last, you know,

Unknown Speaker  11:08  
five years. Yeah, I think that's what I mean, you quote you gave and made a reference to Newton earlier on, you know, the famous Newton quote is that if I've seen fires by standing on the shoulders of giants, and a lot of what we're seeing now is the benefit of the last 10 or 15 years of hard work, that, you know, a 22 year old now can go out and build a startup and get millions of users with very little money very quickly, which was impossible. 15 years ago, you see WhatsApp get to WhatsApp was sending the same volume of messages, as I'll send in the global SMS system. They were doing with that. That was what two dozen engineers Yeah,

Unknown Speaker  11:41  
55 people and like, I don't know how many engineers, but probably half

Unknown Speaker  11:44  
of those were engineers. And they'd raised, you know, they got halfway there on like, $6 million. Yeah. And so and you see, then health cases, and all of the funny things that we're talking about, is the ability to create really significant and profound businesses on the top of platforms that have been built and achievements that have been created over the last 10 or 15 years. And part of that is around things like open source software, it's around the collapse in the cost of data centers, which is what makes Twitter and Facebook possible, among other things. Part of it is the explosion in mobile devices. So there are as it might be 1.5 billion PCs on earth now, maybe more, maybe less, it kind of depends on whose guesses you believe. And half of those are corporate and locked down. And half of those are consumer and immobile and kind of stay at home in a shed. And we will go to three to three and a half billion smartphones on us. And those are mobile and personal and taken everywhere.

Unknown Speaker  12:39  
And now you see Android where they just came out

Unknown Speaker  12:41  
yesterday. Yeah, exactly. I'm so and so you have proliferation with and indeed kind of innovation within that. So you know, one of the puzzles in mobile is although the the sort of the Android Apple platform was over and they both won, nothing's actually settled in terms of what happens on top of those devices, or what other devices, there might be the still kind of massive, changing innovation going on top on top of that. But But all of that comes in the context of this enormous scale. So you know, a 20 year old can critical dating app and get 10 million users and benchmark it for himself. I mean, you know, this is the most extreme example of this is probably injure. You know, where they got hammer, they got to God knows how many hundreds of millions of users with one person, right, $7 and $7. And, you know, you see that with WhatsApp, you see it with all of the people who are now taking the whole all of the arm and all of the the chipsets that have been created for the smartphone business, and that's now enabling the drone industry and enabling a whole bunch of other interesting types of hardware. So it's like,

Unknown Speaker  13:39  
romances and satellite companies were saying,

Unknown Speaker  13:41  
Yeah, reconfigure. So Exactly. So it's like, there was a nuclear winter after the after the last crash. And then for the last 10 years, people have been building and slugging away and creating platforms and creating tech or hardware is the opposite of technical debt. It's sort of technical savings. And we've built up so much of it over the last 10 years. And now you're getting this kind of flowering of new things that can be built on that. And you see that in really trivial things. But you also see it in, you know, Tesla and hundred dollar satellites. Yeah,

Unknown Speaker  14:09  
I think I think one way to think about that is like, you know, no one is going to say buy a computer just to use Twitter. Once they bought the computer, there's an incremental zero cost of experimentation to Twitter, and so on, right, so like installing that platform, there has to be that killer app for it. Like for a mobile phone, it's texting, and it's Visual Voicemail, it's all the things that iPhone push people over that threshold, but then after that, it's just this deployment point where you can build billion dollar companies on top of that installed base. So I think a very interesting strategic question just you know, from investment standpoint is what kinds of platforms are there that are like that, like what kinds of platforms cure such a pain point that then once we we get people in it then we can deploy lots more stuff on that. I think one of the things is probably going to be Bitcoin like getting lots of people bitcoin wallets, because you can deploy all kinds of software on top of that went to have the convenience so

Transcribed by https://otter.ai
