Unknown Speaker  0:13  
Welcome to appetite for disruption. The business and regulation of FinTech, a podcast focused on engaging discussions about the FinTech industry with leaning participants and thinkers. With your host, try a parade us and Lee Schneider.

Unknown Speaker  0:31  
Hey, everyone, its Lee. This is the fifth in our series of COVID-19 short interviews. We're gonna talk with Balaji Srinivasan, who has done a lot in the crypto space and other entrepreneurial ventures Balaji Why don't you introduce yourself to everybody and say, Hi,

Unknown Speaker  0:49  
Hey, how are you guys doing Balaji here, Stanford lifer was an academic for, you know, the beginning of my life bsms PhD in electrical engineering ms in chemical engineering. I did my PhD work in genetic circuits of microbes. So kind of the intersection of genomics and statistics and computational biology, Bioinformatics, etc. So a few different fields. After that, I taught computer science and stats and bioinformatics at Stanford for a few years, then founded a genomics company molecular diagnostics company that I was CTO and co founder of, that ended up selling for $375 million. Then, after that, I did a few other things. I was an angel investor in you know, Bitcoin and aetherium, Soylent, superhuman lamda school, a bunch of other things like that. I was general partner at Andreessen Horowitz, multibillion dollar venture capital firm, I took over one of our portfolio companies and sold it to Coinbase and was CTO of Coinbase until recently. And you know, I just launched something new earlier in January at Nakamoto. Calm and then put that on pause for the last three months or so to basically cover the Coronavirus full time. And that brings us to the present day since a lot of different stuff that you've done really interested in. And and and I think it goes perfectly into the first thing we wanted to ask you about, given all the different vantage points that you bring to the table is is there a topic or an issue that's related to the pandemic that you think people are missing, overlooking or even if they've spotted it, it's just not getting the amount of attention and focus that it deserves? Yeah, well, so you know, your audience is like a financial FinTech audience. So I think that for people in finance, this may be obvious, but I expect what's coming to not be like a near miss financial crisis, as in 2008. But a true financial crash. And the reason for that is, you know, like a, like a meteor hitting the ocean. The virus has kicked off a series of tsunamis. And some of them, you know, people are aware of, but some of them are still gathering steam. So, you know, there's a great tweet by Shawn dawn and s do and then and on March 18, he was like, you know, so as best I can tell this morning, we have a pandemic crisis, a supply chain crisis, a demand crisis, a labor market crisis, an equity market crisis in oil prices crisis, a brewing bond market crisis, a developing currency crisis, a potential housing market crisis. And that's not actually even, even all of them. We also have like a higher ed crisis, because tuition may not be paid. If you know for many schools if they have to go 12 to 18 months without tuition, SMB crisis, many small and medium businesses are and will go bust, aircraft carriers, military crisis, aircraft carriers are being sidelined by the virus for the police when you're getting infected. You know, there's deep leasing Hollywood studios are shuttered for a while that you may fly apart. There's a federal crisis with lots of states going their own way, and soft power crisis for the US where it's losing influence abroad. So now, many of those things may not develop all the way. You could imagine, for example, that you know, the the lockdowns now bring the virus at least partially under control, hopefully. And then, you know, we'll see if a second wave hits, which is, which is probably going to happen, but at least people will be aware of it. So maybe not all of those things carry all the way through. But I think there's enough simultaneous big bad things going on, where you have a bunch of thanksgiving charts across the economy. And by Thanksgiving chart, I mean, talibs famous graph, Nassim Taleb has this graph of like, you know, the health of a Thanksgiving Day Turkey, and for 1000 days, it's just up into the right. And then on the thousand first day, it just goes down, straight down. And that's what, you know, many, many, many companies look like, if they're in travel, you know, well managed companies are just getting killed by this. And, you know, the economy is like that in reverse or unemployment is like that, and reverse rather, where it was like going down and looking good, and then suddenly just went vertical with like, 10 million unemployed in like two weeks, right. So I think that the pandemic crisis is just the beginning, there's going to be a number of disruptions that hit and it may actually mean like the The financialization of the economy, if you remember, you know, one of the things that I mentioned that was happening in February and March was digital Dunkirk. Right. So you know, the Dunkirk evacuation where you know, people to escape the Nazi blitzkrieg on the British evacuated along with the Free French to to Britain. Right? You guys are familiar with that? Yep. good movie. Good movie too, right, exactly. So, you know what what happened in March was basically digital Dunkirk, where everybody who could work from home, everything that could be done remotely has been, and lots of industries that had resisted digitization, have, you know, like, like the courts or K through 12, business meetings, conferences, you know, we've been sort of forced to develop digital substitutes for things for industries are slowly digitizing, especially, you know, biomedicine and health care. All these things have just been forced online, where they were kind of resisting it before, education, all these regulated industries. So anything that can be done over the internet is being done on the internet. And the thing is that the web at least is about 25, you know, 30 years old, at least the graphical web about 25 on internet scape 9495. And so, so the graphical web could handle it. Because, you know, these, these technologies are now pretty mature. And even if, you know, there's, they're sort of struggling under load, it's held up remarkably well, you know, zoom works, you know, all these things work. And so to the internet, the web could support, you know, the entire economy coming on to it at once. But with the financial crisis that's coming. And as I said, I think we would call it the financial crash, because it wouldn't be a near miss, but or actual crash, I think you'll see banks actually collapse, and not just like, you know, get get bailed out. And if that happens, you get a really messy forced deprecation of the old system, and people are forced to cut over to crypto. But crypto is only about 10 years old, unlike, you know, the graphical web. So it's not ready, you know, we're in crypto, you know, we've seen it, there's a lot of awesome things happening. But it's simply not ready to bear the entire complexity of the global financial system. The scalability isn't there, it's still relatively early. So what I think happens is we just essentially de financialized much of the economy, and may like even regress for a bit back to like a more pre modern financial economy where digital gold works, and payments work. And business crowdfunding works like applications that work in crypto, but lots of other more complicated instruments, just just don't for a while. And so I think that financial crash is something that is unrecognized but relatively predictable, if you look at the number of simultaneous tsunamis that have been kicked off by the spires. So you mentioned that you you had another kind of effort or business in the works that you put on hold to focus all of your energy right now on the Corona, virus in terms of your focus on it, is this, is it this stuff that you were just sharing? Or is there something specific where you're focusing your efforts right now? Well, I'm actually going to be rebooting that business in a modified form. Because, you know, well, shamans call it a business that was Nakamoto was intended to be basically like a monthly ish, journal for crypto. And, you know, this is something I enjoy doing writing and thinking with colleagues, and it is very much a piece Time Magazine, you know, thinking about ideas and getting into discussions, and so on and so forth. But what I think is going to happen is, you know, if Act One was a virus, act two is the financial crash. And I think, actually, that the future political axis of the world is antivirus and pro crypto. And what I mean by that is anti virus, you know, to fend off the virus, you need a competent centralized government. And you might have to give it a bunch of powers, like the ability to track citizens or even effectively imprison them without cause, which is what, you know, these lockdown orders are is basically, you know, just mass mass house arrest, right? If you give a competent centralized state, this kind of power, it won't abuse it, of course, an incompetent centralized state will, and whether competent or incompetent, it's unlikely to give up that power. So, you know, while you want to stay alive, you want the virus, you know, controlled, you don't want to spread through your your town, or city. That's, that's the antivirus end of the spectrum, which is antivirus is basically the total state, the total centralized state. On the other side is pro crypto pro Bitcoin, where this is kind of the backlash, which is, okay, um, people want to go back to work, they don't want to be out of jobs, they don't want to be under house arrest, they don't want to go through security lines, and so on and so forth. And, you know, there's an extreme version of this, which is kind of kind of dumb, you know, which, which basically is saying, oh, the virus doesn't exist, just like there's an extreme version of the antivirus which says, oh, the economy doesn't matter. And it's phrased as money versus lives. But of course, if your your economy's totally crashed, you can't afford the drugs. The vaccines have treatments, you can't build them. And so that also costs lives, right? So there's extreme versions of both. But the pro crypto and is going to be robust, decentralized networks to defend freedom and privacy, just like the antivirus and is going to be competent, centralized states to protect health and safety. And I think that's a new political axis of the world. And it maps to a bunch of things that I, you know, have tweeted about and written about before, which is, I think that, you know, the new, like, macro accesses the land versus the cloud. So you have, you know, centralized states versus decentralized networks, you have in the US, like,

Unknown Speaker  10:34  
East Coast versus West Coast, roughly, you have modern monetary theory, if you're familiar with that, versus BTC. You have, like, the politics and policy versus technology. So that's how I think things are shaping up, where, you know, the decentralized networks are almost like the ocean, in between these gigantic Vertical, Vertical, or I should say, gigantic, the strong, vertical centralized states, most of those centralized states, I don't think will be gigantic, with the exception of China, I think that we're gonna have simultaneous decentralization and centralization, where, for example, the EU may break up into 27 individual countries, so therefore decentralizes, but within those countries, you have total state power. And like Hungary is kind of one version of this. And the emergency powers that are being passed in a bunch of other countries are another version of this. So So that's kind of how I see the medium term future, you know, playing out. And a lot of the philosophical ideas that are meant to discuss with Nakamoto are, again, highly relevant. So I'm going to reboot it with With this in mind,

Unknown Speaker  11:34  
ology that's a really interesting take on the way things are headed. And I think particularly interesting is this idea of centralized state on one side, and crypto, that is to say, technology on the other side, can you talk a little bit about how you're thinking about technology and innovation as a way forward on the crypto side of that balance.

Unknown Speaker  12:00  
So there's a really important one liner that comes by way of Julian Assange, which is no amount of violence can solve certain kinds of math problems. And so the state vers the network, you know, the state is basically it's not all bad. But the state is essentially organized violence, it is sanctioned violence, whether it's a police or the military, to preserve order, you know, and that can be in many ways from traffic tickets to, um, you know, keeping people in lockdown to defend against invaders, etc. But no amount of violence can solve certain kinds of math problems. What that means is, no matter how many troops and tanks and weapons you have, you cannot decrypt on, you know, a properly encrypted, like, like you cannot reverse engineer the private key from a public Bitcoin address, you can't seize the money simply with a lot of guns. And that is new. And that is different, because that's a power that can stand against the state. And that is on par with or even actually superior in the same way that like the oceans, no nation contain the oceans, that's why we have something called the Law of the Sea. I'm not sure if you're familiar with that. But that's, um, something's quite old, that regulates interstate commerce, because the oceans are kind of a demilitarized decentralized zone that people can't control. And so the encrypted internet, the decentralized internet, the blockchain, crypto internet, that's kind of like this ocean in between these all powerful centralized states. And that's kind of the metaphor of the model that that I that I think about.

Unknown Speaker  13:35  
So given all of this, and I know you've talked a little bit about what you want to do for the reboot of Nakamoto. Tell us a little bit of what you see as some of the business models for the future, where you've got this axis of centralized states on one side, and kryptos slash decentralization on the other side.

Unknown Speaker  13:56  
Yeah, so I think the most important export in the world, for the most important product in the world will be the ability to turn a geographic area into a green zone. And what I mean by that is, like if we just define a green zone, as a place with comprehensive testing, and no new cases for the last four weeks, in a red zone being everywhere else, the thing about a green zone is green zone keeps the virus out, because it keeps the virus out doesn't have to go into lockdown, because it doesn't go into lockdown as a function economy. Because as a function economy, it has the money and resources to keep the virus out. It's a positive feedback loop. Conversely, in a red zone, the virus runs rampant. Lots of people get sick and die. And you know, the economy shuts down with lockdown. And then they lose the money and they can't buy the masks and the drugs and the you know, treatments and vaccines keep it under control. And one thing that I don't think most people realize is, I think it's, you know, the best evidence right now indicates that it's likely we will get a COVID-19 vaccine but It's also going to be something where COVID-19 becomes potentially the fifth endemic Coronavirus. So it'll be carbon 22 and carbon 26 and whatnot, it's like a storm that will come back around the world. And it's probably true that our vaccines will get updated to deal with that, just like you get kind of an annual flu shot. But it's not going to be something where pandemic risk totally, totally disappears, I don't think. And even in the model where it does, it's something that has scarred enough people, that people are not going to assume that it won't come back. I think even if we can develop vaccines for that people are going to be on guard against pandemic risk going forward. This is, this is a pretty big event that, you know, billions of people suffered massive consequences from. And as a consequence, one of the most valuable businesses to build are things that are centered around green zones, to turn something into a green zone, to help people get into green zones, to you know, like, determine whether your zone is still green, and to prove it to others that it is because there's a incentive to, you know, understate numbers, right. Um, so a lot of crypto type of things like proof of health, and proof of societal health will have to come into play. It's actually kind of amazing for me, at least because, you know, I spent 10 years in molecular diagnostics and, you know, close to 10 years in crypto, and now those two worlds are kind of colliding in a very unexpected way.

Unknown Speaker  16:24  
Yeah, that's very interesting. And so do you see this? Just one last question? Do you see this as the green zone, Red Zone world? Do you see this as going to be a world of haves and have nots, and it's going to be impossible or very difficult for people from red zones to get to green zones?

Unknown Speaker  16:42  
Yes, I unfortunately, I think, and I think it's possible America becomes a red zone. Because the US has kind of the world's worst outbreak right now. And with 50 different states taking 50 different approaches. It's likely that some states take a very bad approach, and the coronavirus is endemic within that state. And, you know, hopefully, hopefully that doesn't happen. But right now, many countries around the world have made made it difficult for people to get in. And they're probably going to start, you know, rating countries based on the percentage of people in those countries that have you know, Coronavirus. If you're coming from an area that has a lot of folks with Coronavirus, you may not be able to get in that's actually same logic the US applied when it banned people from China and now logic China's applying when banning people from the US and that logic is going to close borders and shut doors unfortunately, all over the world. Even within Italy, you have towns that are erecting borders to keep other Italians out because they want to get the virus under control and their own place and then very selectively admit people within Asia you have guys with, with forehead thermometers standing at the entrance to many malls and, and buildings, just scanning people and making sure no one but the temperature is coming in. And this is what I call a proof of health check. Now, the concept has actually been around for a while in the sense of, you know, to get into the US, for example, you need vaccination certificates for a bunch of different diseases. So the concept of like biological or biomedical immigration control does exist. You know, vaccination certificates have been a requirement for immigration for a long time for visas for certainly for permanent residency in many countries. But this is going to turn it into a totally new level, where you know, rather than just a TSA line where you go through and you get metal detected, you're going to have real time biomedical checks. Like for example, Emirates says they've got a you know, the airline, so they've got a 10 minute clause real time. It you know, as I say, that's a point of care test for COVID-19. And so you're gonna get acid before being able to move through a boundary. It's actually in some ways like the Gatica world, you know, where, if you remember they had to do that blood test before they could go through the turnstile in the movie Gatica. And, you know, obviously, there's negatives of that, you know, to look at the silver lining on this, one of the positives is that we're going to massively accelerate diagnostics. So you know, right now you know what's going on in Bangalore, Budapest, but you don't know what's going on in your own body. And I think that's going to radically change where everybody's going to have diagnostic, great wearables, and a whole stream of telemetry out of your body, because the economy has basically gotten totally reallocated very unceremoniously the physical leisure economy, which I didn't even really articulate it this way until recently. But a huge chunk of our economy was sort of like a physical leisure economy. It was travel, it was hotels, bars, restaurants, concerts, events, all of the steps of even higher ed, frankly, you know, many, many colleges are sort of like resorts, they're very comfy, you know, and nothing wrong with all that stuff. That's all great and fun. But that whole economy because of mass gatherings of people, any anything that's mass gatherings of strangers has just been forced deprecated and it won't come back in the same way because you know, the cost of pandemic insurance. In the reduction in demand, even if the lockdown goes away, when the lockdown goes away, you're not going to have the same scale of attendance if if airline travel drops off 40%, even, or college attendance drops off 40%. You know, that's now something where those those businesses now maybe subscale, for example, you might need to just as an example, I don't know the exact numbers, but you might need to have an airline that 70% filled to or an airplane 70% filled in order to be profitable. If it's 60%, you're losing money on every route, there's some threshold where reduction in demand is a qualitative, not simply a quantitative issue. So, so a bunch of the physical leisure economy has just been forced deprecated. And where I think the energy is going to move into is from the want economy to the need economy. So, you know, and again, I don't want to say this in a flip way, because I liked a lot of those things that are in the physical Leisure World, but it's going to all move towards need, like need masks need food, need, you know, biotech biomedicine, so biomedicine is going to leap forward, I think and I think we're going to get 100 years of progress in 10. And maybe 10 years of progress in one you have every mind in the world. Everybody is now thinking about research papers on Twitter, and looking at graphs and charts and arguing about randomized control trials, everyone's paying attention to our health. So hopefully, a positive silver lining that comes out of this is that we put the same energy into biomedicine and our health that we put into web apps, and financial manipulations, and so on over the last, you know, several years, frankly, the last at least two decades. And so that may be a silver lining of this. But obviously there's going to be a lot of there are a lot of bad things coming from it as well.

Unknown Speaker  21:42  
Balaji This has been a really interesting conversation. And it's clear that your background informs a lot of thinking that you're doing and you're bringing a perspective to things that I personally haven't heard before. And I follow you on Twitter. So thank you Balaji take care and stay healthy.

Unknown Speaker  22:02  
Stay safe YouTube. Thank you

Transcribed by https://otter.ai
