Unknown Speaker  0:04  
Please, help me.

Unknown Speaker  0:15  
As you guys know, there's also a journal article

Unknown Speaker  0:19  
on our company. And, you know, our goal was actually not to be, you know, super serious, and so on and so forth. It's basically just that there were some important sitting around, and they've heard about our fundraising wanting to get out there. You know, our goal is really to announce things that we've already done, we have done our fundraising events that are interesting that we're going to do bonus on if you do want to learn more about this black coat on such kind of jobs, or go to our group there, and happy to tell you more. So on this gonna talk about 540 points, which we think of when we think about, as well as talk about what we think was the most important question. So those five points is the first that quick point is it, payments around packets together, and second one is down here to say, last 18 months, I've had tremendous institution acceptance from every major government rule, even those that might be in a religious restricted. Third one, and this is something which was built on this calculation. But essentially, the Bitcoin mining sounds better than Google, by simply measuring intrinsic compute power insurance, power consumption, and interest. Before we want to quantify kind of the foresight of NASSCOM miners, developers, merchants and users, five, I want to talk a little bit of open source nature, many of the things that people talk about as constraints and maybe, like 10, confirmation times, or things of that nature are actually changed by smooth patches. that's already happening. If Google turn off, search, the help apps, all of their all of their distributed computing and all their data centers and just wanted to pick one, it would be less than 1% of the global knowledge. Okay, so what has happened in the last two years, is that the largest supercomputer in history has been built by a bunch of people around the globe don't do each other themes are all property to listening to because now, I'll give another fact, which I think is also reported on Google to 11, consumes less power than and so you know, that's the hash rate.

Unknown Speaker  2:49  
Over here is a quote from 2011, as last public statement of power production. And it appears that Google is currently consuming less power, because well if you have reasonable assumptions for wads of cash. And so the combination of these facts is actually pretty interesting. That is, if mining is bigger than Google, and Google is arguably the most prominent, you know, compute cluster in the world, you can take Google and you can do super calculations for AWS and Facebook, and so on and so forever. If you want to talk about disruption, just ask me completely for inspiration out of nowhere, and none of the existing incumbents can just take over, right? There's no leave it up to the viewer just turn their computers towards a friend of mine. And if Google can't do it, then that is a problem. EDI is open source, decentralized and rambled. What that means is it instantly now you have a right so just as we went from landlines to personal machine IP address to personal landlines or machine IP addresses, we're going from personal bank accounts to receive office. Some people will say Oh, because I'm tools, and I always say yes, they're just like tools that you can see teleport anywhere in the world that are for economists.

Transcribed by https://otter.ai
