Unknown Speaker  0:05  
If any of you guys saw my talk at Y Combinator in late 2013, Silicon Valley's ultimate exit on or have an article in real time software is organizing the world on, you know, I've been thinking about some of these ideas for some time. And, you know, so have you know, so Patrick Friedman and other folks like this. The thing about COVID-19 is it is accelerated this future, many different ways. Perhaps, perhaps the most important is that the nations around the world first have closed their borders. So every nation on the rows, closer borders, but what's going to happen is due to the economic crash, they're going to have to reopen their borders selectively, for skilled immigration. And moreover, people are going to want to leave countries or areas that have not gotten the virus under control and or do not have a functioning economy, and those will highly correlate. So while tourism is over, on economic migration has, in my view just begun. And what I mean by that is basically that, you know, countries around the world is getting divided now into red zones and green zones. And the way I define it is a green zone. And this is actually, by the way, terminology and sound being used by government of India, the government of France. So it has kind of been on my Twitter for a while seems, you know, at least in part to be diffusing out there. But define a green zone as a place with comprehensive testing. That is, the basically has no new cases within let's say, the last two weeks or four weeks, okay, you can, you can vary the time parameter. Um, but basically, Edwards redzone is everywhere else. Right. Now, crucially, the comprehensive testing is important, because you could see that you have no new cases, but you're not actually, you know, testing then that then you don't know anything, you don't know anything happened. Okay. So given those two definitions, that are green zone has been new cases, despite comprehensive testing, and a red zone is everywhere else, you can now visualize the entire world and color individual zones as red and green, at the highest level that's at the country level. But you can also drill down to the sub national level, the state and even the county or the city level, for example, there's towns in Italy, that have just cordon themselves off to try to get to green, and blocked all immigration coming in and lock it down until that happened. And so we are entering this sort of fractal environment where the virus breaks, centralized states, any state that is not capable of keeping the virus under control, will face detection, and basically break up internally until it gets to entities that are small enough and aligned enough that it can get the virus under control. Some examples of this EU has caused a broken up into 27 countries, and the USA has actually broken up into these compacts like the western seats combat 30, the northern Compaq all these other compacts. Right. And so the thing about that is,

Unknown Speaker  3:31  
we are

Unknown Speaker  3:33  
we are experiencing essentially the breakup of these gigantic centralized entities, though it's so many events are happening at the same time that we're not really seeing that. And China is really the exception that proves the rule here in the sense of being a gigantic country that has managed to be fairly nimble and controlled. But for the most part, the countries that have been having success in controlling this are not the guidance countries, but the small, nimble, you know, locations like Singapore or New Zealand. I know Singapore has a lot of cases. But I'm actually fairly confident they're going to bring it down over time. Okay, what's the point? So first, in general, large countries are being subject to this kind of, you know, break up pressure. Second, the world is being converted to red zones and green zones. Now, here's the thing. We're right at the very early stages of this pandemic, unless there's, unless there's some miracle cure or vaccine, it's always possible. I can never say never, it's likely that this is going to take months and possibly years, it might be 2021 or 2022, before we have a vaccine or cure. And what that means is that the pandemic will drag on in those places that were unable to control the virus, even those places that did the sacrifice economically to get there. So New Zealand, Australia, all these places have, you know, damage to very damaged economies and they need to make hard currency now at a time when Tourism is being cut off. When there folks can travel, lots of normal economic activities being disrupted, or is just reduced due to social distancing that continues even after the virus comes back, or even after the virus stopped, for example, people may be cautious about acting and tubers and things like that due to social distancing. So because of this, many countries, many zones are going to want to try to make money. One way of doing this as economic migration, and they're doing this is going to be encouraging software companies, which export bits in return for hard currency. A third is going to be interested biotech companies. And fourth, overtime is going to be crypto. So tech, biotech, crypto, as well as things like robotics, you know, manufacturing, and of course, food, those are things that are going to be critical for nations to

Unknown Speaker  5:47  
try to attract.

Unknown Speaker  5:49  
So this means that nations are going to turn into effectively, vendors, and entrepreneurs and relatively mobile people will be applicants. And so there's going to be a really big global market for talent, where people capital and talent will want to go to green zones. And green zones want to attract capital and talent and everyone and capitals helpful want to get out of red zones, for many of you four reasons. One is that simply, um, you know, if you're picking an area to set up a business, just like you pick power, water, you know, a place that had power, water, internet, you know, and, and roads and rule of law, you pick a place where you know, all else being equal would have virus under control. If you ever wanted to set foot there physically, you probably don't want to have, you know, an ongoing catastrophe, because at a minimum, you will, even if you don't think the virus is serious, and I think it is actually, we if you didn't, that place could be under lockdown, it might be hard to go and, you know, go to the hospital, due to social distancing, you might not be able to go to a bar, essentially, the commons are tragedy in any area, that's a red zone. So a capital and talent will avoid those zones. And B capital and talent in red zones will try to flee to green zones, or get immigration there. And the reason for that is, for example, if you think about it, it's several different reasons. One is, you know, you'll see shortages of different kinds of red zones, for example, meatpacking plants in the US, which may be a giant red zone. Unfortunately, meatpacking plants in the USA, are currently experiencing labor shortages due to the pandemic. Other kinds of shortages are also, you know, coming like, for example, potentially water shortages, there's already a co2 shortage because ethanol demand has dropped. So co2 is used for according to The Guardian is used for for potable water. And air gas is saying you know that it's not going to be able to give all the co2 out there. So if you live in a red zone, the shortages of different times, it's also something where if you're over age 50, or 60, those are actually folks who have just portion amount of wealth. And if they live in a red zone, they are at significant physical risk from from the virus. And then just even if you don't believe your physical risk or aren't, you know, you know, anything like that, living in a red zone is going to mean many functions just don't work. And so for a lot of reasons, capital and talent are going to avoid red zones, and leave red zones and before green zones. So the ability to create and maintain a green zone is one of the most important exports

Unknown Speaker  8:26  
in the world. This is going to be I think, how China basically kind of retooled its foreign policy, the Belt and Road is not really about trade, it's about China's ability to go and export a green zone. Meaning, you know, everybody in the country gets, you know, let's say they're going to Iran, right, everybody and Ron would get WeChat, China would roll out the green, yellow and red codes that they rolled out within China itself, they hook it up to a diagnostics and testing back end to keep those codes up to date, on in this fashion, you'd essentially have Chinese boots on the ground that would get your country agreed, this is one approach. Another approach, of course, is a homegrown organic approach, which is what Singapore and New Zealand and so on are doing. Um, I think that, you know, some of the stuff on out there right now where, you know, folks are like, you know, basically saying, open up and so and I understand why people are saying that, because, you know, obviously there's massive economic damage that's happened here. However, I think in the medium to long run, it'll be clear those countries, you know, like New Zealand, like, you know, folks in Eastern Europe, you know, like Hong Kong, like Taiwan, like South Korea, those folks that took the hit, reacted hard early on, got the virus under control, are going to be rewarded in the long run because they have competent governments, cooperative societies. You know, they're technologically modern, they're able to kind of coordinate effectively. And whether you argue it's because the virus itself and its absence in those places, or whether it's simply because green zones have competent societies. I think those are going to be the ones that benefit the post copper world. So because of this, we have this, you know, enormous kind of market for talent and capital, then here's the next shoe to drop. Many of the red zones are going to experience municipal and sovereign bankruptcies, because they're going to lose capital and lose talent to green zones. But they do have land. And so those folks who have hard currency in green zones, or cryptocurrency, um, you know, there's an article in The Atlantic on municipal bankruptcy is, you know, you can google another thing like the accounting rules of bankrupt cities, subtitled an article of the Atlantic, if you go and read that on, essentially, what you're going to see is that a number of towns and cities and states, both in the US and around the world are, have parlous PR, ello us financial conditions, because they've basically just gone into debt for a long time, you know, a lot of towns will build a bridge without really thinking about whether the extra revenues from that bridge offset the cost the bridge, so website called strong town site org that talks about this. But net is, um, there's going to be potentially, these red zones will have a wave of municipal and sovereign bankruptcies, and there will be land for sale. And I think it's going to be possible over the next 10 years, for those folks who have capital to be able to purchase land, from these folks, potentially, in terms of looks like a Hong Kong style, 99 year lease, or what the Chinese government recently did in terms of purchasing a port from Sri Lanka, or doing a sovereign lease from Israel, obviously, the Chinese government, that's a nation state that's doing this kind of thing. But deals between sovereigns and other areas, you know, or other countries, or even individuals for land, I think are going to be back on the table. But mid 2020s is a function of this economic crash. Um, so that is kind of the medium term environment for kind of startup societies. And let me just kind of pause there and read through all the questions that we've been reading all the feet over here.

Unknown Speaker  12:03  
So let's see

Unknown Speaker  12:05  
tons of stuff,

Unknown Speaker  12:06  
or why don't I take some questions here? If you guys have any questions, and then I will hand it over to someone else in the back.

Unknown Speaker  12:22  
Yeah, so competence is a part of engineering. Yes, I think this is comparable to World War One. Um, it is it is the transition, you know, future historians will think about this, I think is, you know, the true beginning of the internet age, when we're thinking about that is, you know, when the New York Times first went online, in the mid 90s, it was just a little website that had a few articles, and it was clear that the paper was a primary and the website was the mirror. And over time, more and more weight shifted until by you know, 2020, it's clear that it is the the website, which is the primary. And the physical paper is just a printout of the website, there's stuff that exists on the web, that doesn't exist in the physical paper, like the data science, for example. You know, subscriptions, and logins, all the types of that functionality exists. So that's actually now that the digital is primary, the physical is secondary. And that's happened with other kinds of things for us. Now, it's happened with with kind of the world we call the digital divide, which is over the last seven years become thanks to Moore's Law, cheaper and cheaper and cheaper to put, put a bunch of chips, or a bunch of transistors on a chip. But it has now suddenly become extremely expensive to put a bunch of people

Unknown Speaker  13:40  
in a room.

Unknown Speaker  13:43  
So digital is cheap, and physical is expensive. And so to organize a group of people in one place, it's actually very challenging expensive, since all those people have to trust each other, they need to be, you know, like, like, vetted for, you know, you get to test them to make sure they don't have disease, if trusting each other is not trying to gain that test, it's actually a pretty difficult thing. And so, what that means is, for a while, red zones will primarily experience the portal digitally, you know, will kind of be potentially a Ready Player, one environment in some places where people will have a food ration. And they'll have VR, and they really won't maybe leave their house for a while until the virus is under control. And it's not, it's not a gimme or a layup that, you know, that's going to happen in the next week, for example, so might last for a while, maybe months, maybe even, you know, a year or two years. So see, I do agree, I think this is going to be seen as end of an era and there's things that aren't going to make it to the other side, on, you know, some examples, movie theaters, they're probably going to die. If you saw the trolls premiere and so on, you know, just people don't need to go to movie theaters. And so, you know, social distancing is something which people will continue even if there aren't lockdowns and some folks will I think stream online second example. Higher Ed, many, many colleges are going to go bust. Some already have ultra Gen, Ed's something on this. And you know, like sports, for example, might be a while before that fully recovers, if it does at all, and in some, it's going to go to eSports. These are trends that were kind of already happening. And those are kind of smaller things. You know, I'm at small, you know, like Hollywood movies fairly big. But, uh, but in general, if you think about World War One, you know, you know, the world entered World War One with the cavalry and the ability and ended it with mechanized warfare and communism, which, you know, wasn't necessarily progress. You know, certainly communism wasn't.

Unknown Speaker  15:35  
But is it just a dislocated

Unknown Speaker  15:37  
change? It was, it was a huge change from what came before. And I think the next few years, we're already seeing like, you know, for example, just one, one aspect of zoom, going from 10 million to 300 million users in, in like, a few months, that level of growth is insane. It's accelerating, lots of things business travel, going zero. So a lot of things that people have talked about have just gotten pushed vertical. And even after the pandemic ends, even if a vaccine is deployed, and so on. Some of these changes are new normals, like zoom is not going to go from 300 million back to zero, a lot of business travel is basically gone in a durable fashion. So So yeah, I do think it's a new normal.

Unknown Speaker  16:14  
Alright, let's see.

Unknown Speaker  16:18  
Looking at some other.

Unknown Speaker  16:36  
Yeah, I do not believe that pandemic will be controlled by summertime, I do believe it's early stages, the pandemic, in the US for sure. You've got 50 simultaneous fires, if you go and look at carbon tracking, calm or carbon charts, calm, you know that there's another great website called RT dot live by the founder of Instagram. And this is really the key question is, what is the reproduction number? That is to say, how quickly is virus replicating or replicating how quickly is spreading in each of the states, if the, if the effect of reproduction number is about one or significant about one, um, you know, you start going from, you know, let's say it's to every one person as if two people get it, and so on and so forth. If it hovers around one, and it doesn't really decline significantly below one, you just keep passing on 20,000 people get it, they pass into 20,000 people who pass the 20,000 people, and the thing just kind of keeps going. And that's that's kind of where I think the US is it's not it's not capable, currently, right now putting out the viral fire. Other countries are.

Unknown Speaker  17:38  
So yes, I do think unfortunately, early season dependent,

Unknown Speaker  17:44  
um,

Unknown Speaker  17:46  
is anywhere trying to become a green zone? Yes. Look at New Zealand. Look at they declared victory, you know, maybe prematurely, but I think they've done a good job, Taiwan, Hong Kong, South Korea has done fairly well. Singapore is trying to become a green zone, they place in Eastern Europe have done fairly well. And I think China has many green zones. They've got a second outbreak in the Harbin province, but they basically are just kind of blanketed the country in surveillance. And now they're woke to the virus, right? Like they're looking for these viral fires, breaking out our country, and then trying to just boom, put them out by quarantine in the area, they should know whether someone's sick within a few hours. Um, it's, it's similar to the scene in Batman where he is kind of total surveillance, and is able to kind of find people and attract them. And, you know, obviously, it's better to do that in a privacy preserving way. The seats are, however, managing, I think, to do that, and I think, unfortunately, the US is probably the largest, big state that is really just not doing well at this. Um, so instead of consumers in the sky, people that well, you know, the consumer economy is over, like the postwar economy, you know, the boomer economy and so on. For the last seven years, the physical leisure economy has been retired. And people don't realize it yet. But that's bars, that's concerts that sports, that's events, that's restaurants, restaurant, culture, all that stuff. You know, Ben Evans had this good saying once, which is things reach perfection, right before they go away. And, you know, at least in I think the US, um, you know, there's like, every kind of restaurant under the sun, you know, and it's like, the fax machine was perfected before, you know, the internet came around that kind of thing. So I think that, um, you know, we'll see what happens with with with the physical ledger economy, because I'm, I'm, I'm pretty bearish on it. I think, in places that are green zones, they're going to be able to bring something like that back, but I think we're transitioning from a consumer interaction to produce rich. Alright, looks like we've got our next person here.

Unknown Speaker  19:53  
So I'm going to hand the mic.

Unknown Speaker  19:55  
I don't mean yes.

Unknown Speaker  20:00  
It's pretty interesting. I'm sure many of our viewers were a lot. Thank you.

Unknown Speaker  20:08  
And just dm me@twitter.com Balaji asked if you have any further questions. Thanks,

Unknown Speaker  20:11  
guys.

Unknown Speaker  20:12  
Awesome. Have a nice day.

Transcribed by https://otter.ai
