Unknown Speaker  0:06  
So So here's the thing, right? Imagine now the thing about evidence based medicine is, it's constructed in such a way that it at first seems hard to argue with? Well, of course, like a big study that you spend a lot of effort on for meta analysis, or like a systematic review where you pulled every single paper out. You know, that does seem like the best evidence, and we should use that for clinical judgment, that doesn't seem like you know, a very rare thing. What is not being included, though, explicitly, is the cost and the time, and then the excess morbidity and mortality that occurs during that time. So the cost of the money, and, and, and frankly, in this case, deaths, right, but let's just say morbidity, mortality, in general, associated with compiling that evidence, right? Because, um, if it's, you know, to make an analogy from from engineering, you can always make coke perfect. You know, but, but there's a, there's a diminishing return in terms of making an incredibly perfect versus having it be functional. And, and so that's an alternative paradigm, which, you know, one could call results based mess, right? And results based medicine is iterative medicine. And the difference with evidence based medicine, here's one way of putting it. Imagine, you know, like, if, if the only way that you and I could communicate, we could never send a WhatsApp, you know, or, or a tweet to each other, we could only communicate in book form. Okay, we're in peer reviewed study form. So that would do if you think about that, you'd say, well, that's dumb. Not everything I have to say to you is like a small message, right? You know, or rather, not everything I've seen you is a big thing. Many times, it's like a small message. And if you make me write a book, or do a paper before I can communicate some concept to you, well, that increases the cost of entry that increases the barrier to entry. And so lots of things that don't necessarily make it to the level of a publishable result, do not get communicated. They don't exist, because they're not in a paper and you can't cite them. Okay? And, um, so, you know, that's lots of things, you know, for example, like how to hold on, you know, the the nasal probe, just as an example, I'm sure there's actually a paper on that. These are like aspects of technique, that it may seem trivial to publish, and you might find it hard to get your journal, it's a lot of effort to write it up versus just like, kind of showing someone how to do it, right. So, so what I think happens in you know, I'm not against all, you know, RCTs, or system reviews, right? Not at all those things have their place in there, they're fine. But I think of them often is more of the endpoint of something rather than the beginning of something. Because when you start with iterative medicine, and you basically talk to other doctors, you look at the patient for the jumping out of bed, are they done? Okay, well, try something else. And especially in an emergency situation, it's clear that that's, you know, an ethical approach because a patient is often and they may die, otherwise, it's a very serious condition. So we kind of have no choice. But even I think outside of pandemic situations, internal medicine is how, you know, like, like a drug like penicillin was discovered and then discovered to be effective through an iterative process. So it wasn't an RCT effect size was so large, that it was clear that penicillin worked, it was it was the magic or the wonder drug. And I think that we really underrated today is the strength of iteration in increasing effect size. Because I want to linger on that point. Basically, there's a lot of things you can do with a drug, right? You can change, you know, like dosage, you can change the timing of dosage, you can change like formulation. Is it like inhalable? Or is it you know, swallow any, you have some constraints, but you can change that you can, you can certainly go back to the lab, you can try other drugs, you can try, you know, like, like so called compounding pharmacies can can make combinations of drugs. And you can even play with things like a pill pack, which is packaging, which is actually more heavily regulated than people think, to improve compliance is actually a bunch of different parameters that you can play with. But we're basically, you know, prohibited from iterating on those kinds of things, because you have to sort of like lock a parameter set for an RCT. And it's arguable as to whether that's the best way to do the hill climbing process. Because if you go back and you look at insulin or penicillin, there was iteration on the manufacturing process and so on. It's like, go to a patient kind of go back. But When's the last time you filled out a feedback form to a drug company? Right? Didn't really iterate on customer feedback. It's like a fixed kind of thing, you know.

Unknown Speaker  4:58  
And we're sorry With tech companies, of course, the you know, the iterate all the time. And it may seem not obvious that you could iterate on a drug or treatment, but you, you can. And to give some sense of that, just take a look at all the, you know, the doctor groups that are on Facebook now and how people are sharing techniques for ventilators. And when to put somebody on, you know, distract drug or all the branching, there's tons, you can iterate on in terms of treatment. But if you're prevented from doing that, because you have to write a study before you can, before you can try it, that actually adds a cost. And the cost of that cost is now visible in terms of morbidity and mortality.

Unknown Speaker  5:35  
Yeah, I think the way you phrase that is really nice results based iterative medicine. Um, it will return

Unknown Speaker  5:41  
results based medicine is kind of a, it's a play on words. It's kind of like, because evidence management, some guy says, Oh, you know, everybody's not doing evidence based medicine, rather just like, you know, playing with sticks and stones, it's, it's, it might as well be, you know, the phlogiston theory of medicine or whatever. results based medicine is kind of like the I hate to say it this way, but it's kind of true. It's kind of like the West Coast version, okay. Because results based medicine, it says, Oh, yeah, well, you're writing papers over there, we're getting results. And you sort of just match the same level, okay? where you're like, what actually matters is patient outcomes. And, you know, patients aren't guinea pigs, and they shouldn't have to get a placebo if they're dying. Like that may be unethical, give them the best available treatment, as opposed to, you know, making them guinea pigs, right. I mean, these are not these are not new debates, you know, these are these are mean, debates have been rattling around forever. What is new, is that every single person in the country has rooting interest in it. And so these kinds of decisions that were usually made, and back rooms are now front page news, only thing people care about a trip.

Unknown Speaker  6:52  
Yeah, so I think this transitions nicely into kind of the concept of like decentralized science, we had a journal club a couple days ago with someone who's essentially self testing gene therapy for HIV. And so it's more or less like an n equals one study where if they have the results, they'll be able to take it back and do more with it. You've spoken a lot about n equals one studies and right to try and I'm curious how you think that would apply in the current situation?

Unknown Speaker  7:18  
Well, um, okay, so, let me let me talk about the ideal situation and the current situation, okay. Um, ideal situation is it's not just n equals one, but it's t equals, let's say, 47. That is to say, You're 37 years of diagnostic wearable data. Um, and, and this, by the way, is something which we would have a ton more of, many people now have years of HIPAA data, or months, two years of worrying, and so on, and so forth. Um, but there were a lot more sensors that, for example, Apple is going to put into the Apple Watch, and a lot of other companies are going to do that the FDA basically blocked, you know, Wall Street Journal wrote about that in 2014, you can find it, I had a tweet on it. Um, but essentially, we would have millions more people, maybe hundreds of millions more people with diagnostic grade wearables on their wrist, which would have given us time series data and early warnings on on lots of this stuff. We've seen a lot of people getting fever, um, you know, there's some of this already, by the way, it's like, I think health meter. If I got it wrong, there's a, there's an aggregate service, that is actually like a find it after this. But that is aggregating a bunch of temperature data to look at fevers, and so on and so forth, you could go much, much farther with that. The point I'm making is, rather than n equals one is kind of like a dismissive sort of way of doing it, which assumes that the only axis you have is, you know, you have to do more people. There's another axis, which is you could go time based. And you can look at your baseline over time across a ton of different variables. And you could get data that to show by the way, that's a valuable thing to do. There's a famous paper by Mike Snyder's group profit Stanford on the intagram. You know, cued up IO is, is building services around this. But the intagram basically was described, I think that's what they called it. Basically, Mike Snyder just said, Hey, give me every test in the book, we're gonna run everything on me for like 30 days in a row or forget the exact time period, and he was able to detect himself becoming sick before he got sick, because we could see those transcription factors or whatever they were, you could see gene expression changes changing before he felt sick, right. Moreover, the viral infection he got seemed to aggravate, like diabetic symptoms, as you can see interaction effects you weren't seeing before. So that's like a sophisticated kind of study. That's not just a n equals one, hey, how do I feel kind of thing? Um, it's actually math, you know. And since the ideal case, right, the ideal cases we have so much diagnose degree wearables data, you have all of these analytics on yourself. I mean, we know I've said this for many years, but we know what's going on in Bangalore Budapest, but not in our own body. Okay, and so instrumenting that I think is going to be one of the most important things we can get out of this. reform in the 2020s

Transcribed by https://otter.ai
