Unknown Speaker  0:01  
Malachi is one of my favorite guys to follow on Twitter. And a couple days ago, he had a tweet storm about Bitcoin and AI says a big part of AI is game theory. And a big part of game theory is incentives. Bitcoin allows algorithms to act on incentives. So more specifically, you can program bots and computer programs with code or algorithms, so that they can earn Bitcoin for the owner of that bot. There's already examples of this and zero sum games like bots playing poker for Bitcoin. Briefly, I want to go to the essay that I wrote last week, about leafcutter ants and leaf cutter ants are not trading Bitcoin, obviously, they're just trading pheromones and and who knows what else. But by doing that, with the caste system of workers, soldiers, a queen garbage collectors, they're able to build this amazing society and this superstructure of a nest where they actually farm a fids and have gardens of fungus that they take care of. And I think this is like a kind of artificial intelligence in nature. Logic goes on and he says, but Bitcoin centric bots that have senses are going to start to pop up, they're going to get more sophisticated, perceive more things and trade on anything. There's already bots, with algorithms for trading stocks and bonds with US dollars. But Balaji says, you know, this is like code in a cage. Ai a Bitcoin is is like the jungle. Bitcoin can be used to buy anything anywhere with anyone around the world. There's already examples of people donating processing power to the internet, or to I should say, to pools on the internet. And those pools mined for different alt coins. And they'll use algorithms so that they're always mining for the most profitable alt coin. This is the type of AI in my opinion. And then taxi rides are not far down the road. There's already self driving cars, it won't, doesn't take a huge leap in technology to equip those with computers that will accept Bitcoin or demand Bitcoin for you know, rides of a certain length. There are some negatives, a couple people pointed out crypto locker was like a virus that infected people's computers, encrypted all their files and then demanded that they pay Bitcoin to the terrorist in exchange for the key to be decrypted. Balaji comes back and he says yeah, you know, it's possible that the AI's will be viruses of some kind. Nature is red in tooth and claw. You know, AI is not going to be there's going to be downsides as well as upsides. He ends on a futuristic note, he says a program that increases its Bitcoin balance to make copies is like a piece of DNA that gathers food via organism to replicate itself. It seems like we're the singularities really coming closer with Bitcoin enabling the acceleration of AI through game theory.

Transcribed by https://otter.ai
