Unknown Speaker  0:00  
Should the US government and the rest of us respond to the Coronavirus, which has just been declared a global pandemic by the World Health Organization Balaji Srinivasan who was on the shortlist to head up Donald Trump's Food and Drug Administration has some strong opinions. He's a former venture capitalist at Andreessen Horowitz. And he's a serial entrepreneur with a PhD in electrical engineering. The genetic testing company he co founded council helped change the way millions of people prepare for parenthood and his cryptocurrency startup earned comm was acquired by Coinbase, where he served as Chief Technology Officer in oppression lively and constantly updated twitter feed CERN avacyn, has been way ahead of the curve and noting the coronaviruses spread and potential to cause a global public health crisis and a massive economic and social disruption to life as we know it. Balaji Thanks for talking. Hello, let's let's get right to it. You were really early and sounding the alarm about Coronavirus. How did you hear about it? And why were you on top of it? And what does that say about Silicon Valley versus journalists on the East Coast?

Unknown Speaker  1:13  
Sure. So I've been following you know, the Coronavirus out of my peripheral vision is kind of one of many stories until I saw the lockdown on January 23. And that was unprecedented. It was an unmistakable signal. You know, the Chinese government is completely focused on economic development. So to quarantine millions of people, which would soon become hundreds of millions of people that made me pay attention to what was going on. And so I began talking to me friends of mine, Chinese engineers, entrepreneurs, angels and the like. And the qualitative picture that I got from this was his hair raising, right? You know, we're talking videos and photos of people being blockaded in their apartments, dying on the street, even one of a man throwing himself off a bridge because he couldn't get to the hospital, he didn't want to bring the virus home family. I didn't know what to believe, from this, you know, some of that could be fake, but other in those images would seem fairly difficult to fake even with today's technology, and they seem to match the general circumstances. So, you know, even if some of them are true, these were sort of sci fi movie level events happening in China. Right. And if I, you know, was too skeptical, you know, I would remind myself that there was an officially acknowledged scale of locked into some precedent. And that was an independent reference point of ground truth that one could could anchor right. Now, you know, I also have a background in like Bioinformatics, molecular diagnostics, genomics and so on. So, you know, even though maybe a lot of people know me for crypto and venture capital, actually, I did many years as a founder of a genomic testing company prior to getting into crypto and Angel and venture. And, and I was an academic for many years. So. So the third thing I did is, you know, I dug into the literature and read all these sort of dispassionate medical reports and these kinds of articles in the New England Journal of Medicine Lancet, they're written in a style, which is almost like the opposite of clickbait. So like, you know, the first, the first US case study written up in at GM said something like, you know, 35 year old patient with no pre existing conditions, contracted bilateral pneumonia by day 10, we pursued compassionate use. And in English, that means a healthy 35 year old man was brought to death's door, and we did an experimental drug to save his life right? Now, I mean, zero insult whatsoever towards the folks writing these articles that run second style, but when you translate them, it's eyebrow raising, you know, basically, you know, here's a healthy 35 year old about to die, and he took 10 days in a team and an experimental drug to save him. And that was like the first case in the USA, right. And that's a contagious disease. So, you know, you start mapping that to not just one person, but to, but to 10 people, or 100 people or 1000 people that starts to get very expensive in all senses of term in terms of, you know, suffering and in terms of medical resources, and so on. So the combination of a China's official state action, the unofficial social media reports and people in China and see articles in biomedical journals, that's what made me triangulate on this fairly is something that potentially critical importance.

Unknown Speaker  4:15  
So what what were journalists missing? Or and actually, for that matter, what were what were American health officials, because the New York Times ran a story this morning, about how Seattle, there were a couple people in Seattle who said, Look, there's something really big going on here, and then they couldn't really get traction within their own health organizations. But what what were journalists and health officials missing?

Unknown Speaker  4:40  
So I want to say, you know, first, you know, some professional journalists really got this right. And, you know, I've got like a piece coming on, you know, let's call it corporate journalism versus citizen journalism. And not all corporate journalism is bad. For example, a journalist at Caijing in China, they published really impressive stories in the face of censorship. And you know, the New York Times. They're China reporters, you know, like Amy Quinn and Paul Moser, they did pretty impressive work. There's people on the ground in China who has consequences from both government and the virus to get the story out. So I want to run a kind of level set that right. But I take tech journalists completely failed on the most important story of the year so far, if not the decade, you know, this could be, you know, to the 2020s with 911 was to the 2000s, or the financial crisis to the 2010s, you know, kind of the starting gun that that kicks off. So you're telling

Unknown Speaker  5:34  
me, we're in a new decade, and it's already kind of at the shitter.

Unknown Speaker  5:40  
I'm not saying in the shitter. But certainly, this is going to be an event that colors this decade, you know, the the level of the number of consequences, obviously, politically, but for technology for biotech, for all kinds of things for immigration policy, you know, so just focusing, you know, for a second just on the tech angle, right, a tech journalist completely failed on this and it's not just that infamous report article talking about how parents

Unknown Speaker  6:09  
were

Unknown Speaker  6:12  
in handshakes and pretty much every every intelligent politician in the world is doing or the BuzzFeed article saying Don't worry about you know, Coronavirus, worry about the flu is the tone of these journalists and all their tweets and whatnot. Talking about the terrified racist Zena phobic bubble boy VCs who are scared to death of this total non issue of buyers, right. And, and that's all a matter of public record. And of course, this non issue turned out to be very much an issue. And they weren't simply getting the story wrong, but they were actively attempting to shame and silence people getting the story right. And some of them you know, later in sincerely apologized, others wrote, you know, columns about how they got the story wrong in a slightly more insincere way. And then, once Trump started adopting their early talking points about how the virus was just the flu, several of them have reversed themselves and pretended, you know, they've been taking it seriously all along, you know, they were, they were against the virus, you know, before they were for it against, therefore, right. But but as a group, I think texture was completely just just unforgettably failed on the virus crisis. In a way I know, people, at least within tech will never forget.

Unknown Speaker  7:21  
What What explains that are our tech journalists? And you know, and we're gonna get to the kind of libertarian intersection, or are they? Are they always skeptical about, you know, the great big thing? Or is it particular? I mean, because in a way, tech journalists seem to be suckers for certain types of stories, and then they reject others? What what would? What would make them more prone to rejecting this story?

Unknown Speaker  7:46  
No, I mean, like, in general, I think, um, it's not that they're skeptical of big things. They're, they're credulous of big things that are negative, you know, against tech companies, and they are skeptical of things that are positive. Right. And, and the reason for it, I think it really boils down to the fact that, you know, another word for a lot of journalists is they're employees of a media Corporation. And those media corporations are direct competitors of tech corporations, and their direct competitors, certainly, monetarily on the back end, in terms of advertisers and what have you. But even more importantly, on the front end, in terms of influence, right, you know, in many different ways people seek information on Google, they talk to each other on Facebook and WhatsApp. They post on Twitter, in many, many different ways that undermines kind of information monopoly. And you know, the counter argument you'll often get is, oh, there's an advertising versus editorial wall. And journalism tech, people don't understand this. And, of course, you know, that actually exists within tech companies as well. You know, Google has a wall between search engine engineers and advertising engineers that that that wall, at least existed for many years. But But really, it is true that journalists aren't day to day ad sales, but they are hyper conscious of the fact that the industry is generally declining, that filler journalists have gotten laid off, and that these you know, callow tech people seem to be all making those dollars because they focus on the successes they're not feeling right. So I think, certainly part of it is the fact that many of these tech journalists frequently lacked technical backgrounds. I mean, there's this amusing thing where folks were like, oh, haha, all these VCs commenting on the Coronavirus, and you know, had to cut my head because many VCs have biotech backgrounds that's like, if not half of VC. It's a very large chunk of VC, Founders Fund Y Combinator a16z, all have large biotech funds, and biotech in the broad sense meaning by medicine, not simply recombinant DNA. Um, so So, you know, and then, of course, there's lots of specialist biotech funds. But the tech journalists, they lack technical backgrounds, they often you know, they can't code they don't know, drugs, diagnostics, therapeutics, but they comment, and so certainly part of it is a lack of technical background. I think another part of it is, you know, as you may be aware of many of these tech journalists, they actually Grew up rich, they went to private school they have trust funds or inherited wealth. And they're motivated by a bizarre sort of animus against the nouveau riche tech people. And one way of parsing It is really old money versus new money. And you know, there's a guy Antonio Garcia Martinez who tweeted about this recently, and a bunch of dribbles yelled at them and then many of them volunteered one of the volunteers that she had gone to $90,000 a year of private school run you know, before anybody else

Unknown Speaker  10:26  
so real that real that back for a second though, and how does that map on to missing the Coronavirus store? Great

Unknown Speaker  10:34  
question is basically the combination of a technical ignorance and B class hostility curled into a cocktail where they didn't know what they didn't know about the virus. But they didn't know that they hated these tech interlopers.

Unknown Speaker  10:46  
And that's what drove the coverage. Okay, so discuss how is Coronavirus, different than the flu. You know, one of the one of the early stories was, uh, you know, and I, and I think there's a plausibility factor that that this is a type of flu might be a little bit worse, but you know, let's, let's not lose our shit over this.

Unknown Speaker  11:05  
Yeah. So let me give a qualitative answer. And then a quantitative.

Unknown Speaker  11:11  
So it's on the first move on was annoying chat, okay. I mean, that its problems but as normalcy, okay, I'm less than 60 days later, seven hospitals in move on were filled according to occasion. I'm the sick were being sent home to die. China instituted the largest quarantine in recorded history. Um, and basically wartime measures were instituted. Now, that is not a bad flu season. You know, that that is something that is on a completely different level. And, you know, you you have to think, Okay, well, you know, the Chinese government, the Chinese people, these, they're, there's many criticisms one can give them, but they're serious people. You know, these are not folks who are known for doing anything like this are so focused on economic growth, right. So that right, there is a pretty unfavorable signal, and then let you know, I tweeted that, and now later, Iran and Italy have both had very similar kind of Siri so so this fire seems to be overwhelming hospital systems, flooding them, you know, with, with folks with respiratory failure, crashing hospital systems. So that itself is something which is qualitative. Now, the quantitative is, when people are comparing this to food, they're comparing a constant to a variable. The flu is a known quantity, it's roughly steady state, we know within bounds how many people it's going to infect a bad flu season does not crash a hospital, right? Um, whereas this is something which is wildly contagious, has at least on the order of 10 X, without a break. It has far higher hospitalization rate than the flu. And you know, a better way of calling would be like an aggressive viral pneumonia, right? Because people know the word pneumonia, and they know pneumonia is actually serious, right? So what

Unknown Speaker  12:56  
is what is your best guess of you know, the lethality of this? What is it going to be? You know, are we going to have a 1% kind of death rate out of infection overall, what compared to a 10th of a percent for the flu or? Okay, does it make sense to talk about it in these terms yet?

Unknown Speaker  13:12  
All right, so good question. Let me let me say a few things. First, is the the so called case fatality rate, which is the percentage of folks who die from disease diagnosed with it, it varies a lot between countries, Italy is now reporting like 8%. Okay, now, why are that? Why is it so high? Well, Italy, it seems like it's really just killing folks who are 70 or 80. Plus, these are also obviously human beings. They're our elders, our parents, our grandparents, or what have you. So just like, just extremely dangerous, they're also extremely dangerous in the US, that nursing home, you know, they reported something like, you know, that last I saw, it's, like, 26 people out of 120 died, a normal month, it's an acute care home, but in normal month, they said three to seven day. So if you have 26 die, that's an excess of like, you know, 2025 deaths, right? For 2023 deaths. So, so, um, but the broader point is, let's even say the case fatality rate is 2%. There's, there's a few reasons why that is not look, first of all, if 2% of America died, or if 60% of America got it, and then 2% of those died, that is millions of people, that is like 1000 x 911. Right. So that alone 2% is a very high number that's completely excess, unanticipated. That's definitely number two is lots of people, you know, again, who stats, you know, have been reported, these will vary a lot, but who is reporting something on the 20% have serious conditions requiring hospitalization, 20% getting hospitalized, not all of those people are going to bounce back. Okay. For example, there's radiology paper that I say where, you know, prominent radiologists or incredible people at UCLA USC are basically observing, look, SARS, and MERS. There was there's permanent lung Average there for a substantial fraction of the folks affected by that. It's not necessarily the case, you get COVID-19. And you just, you know, jump out of bed and you're, you're all set. If you don't die on, there's a continuum, anything serious enough to put 20% of people in the hospital is going to cause permanent damage to people, probably, at least to some people like think about polio. Right? It didn't kill everybody. Right, but it did paralyze some people. So So that's the second thing is, you know, the first is 2% is actually still a pretty high death rate. Second is other folks are going to be criminally injured. And third is quantity really matters. You know, if you had a 2% case fatality rate, and this thing was not that contagious, it only affected 1000 people. Yeah. Okay. It would not be something that requires the attention of every government in the world. But skill matters. You have something that has the potential in the absence of dramatic intervention, to scale to millions, and then maybe billions of people just to show that that's possible. Remember the swine flu from 2009? Yeah. So there's a technique called Cerro surveys, where you actually go and take blood out of somebody's arm, it's not a mathematical model. Um, you know, so there's a paper, which went in looked at a bunch of people who've done Saira surveys and different songs, looked for the enterprise against h one, n one. And they found that about 10 to 20% of people and like a dozen countries had antibodies to h1, and it says a reproducible molecular acid. It's not, that's not a mathematical model. But that meant is 10 to 20% of people in the world had done swine flu. Now, if you have something like COVID-19, which is potentially as contagious as swine flu, so can get that skill of 700 million or 1.4 billion people, but is far more lethal. That's an extremely dangerous thing. So that's why basically, you know, three reasons that, you know, the fatality rate is actually pretty high. Number one, 2%. Actually, pretty high. Number two, there's potential for long term illness calls, people getting hospitalized. Number three, the scale is massive, the sheer number of people flooding into emergency rooms and cymbal crash hospital systems. And that, by the way, has second order consequences, you crash the hospital, and then what happens, nobody wants to come into the hospital. Why? Because you don't want to get COVID-19. Right? So all other routine care goes down, right? You had an appendix you need to get that goes down. You just want to get a checkup can't do, right. You want to deliver deliver baby, all that stuff. So it has second order effects on mortality and sort of the population. Go ahead.

Unknown Speaker  17:21  
Okay, so you're making, you're making the case that this is a serious issue that really needs, you know, mass attention at different levels out of the country so far that you've mentioned, or, and, and a couple that we haven't, you know, there's China, there is a rat around and Italy a bit hardest hit by most accounts, it's obviously in the US, and we're going to be seeing numbers doubling and, you know, the doubling cube going up. South Korea has talked about having effectively contained it, it seems, or at least according to some reports coming out of there, what countries are doing well, in dealing with this, and what countries are something that we really need to avoid?

Unknown Speaker  18:05  
So it looks like in this kind of first round that Asian country, so you know, I wasn't sure what to make of China's posted decline, you know, like a week or so ago. But now that South Korea, Taiwan on and looks like Singapore, Malaysia, potentially are getting this under control. Um, it looks like it is possible to halt the spread through China, like measures of lockdown quarantine, and so on and so, right.

Unknown Speaker  18:35  
Okay, and by that, and so on, and so forth. Let's including kind of enforce social distancing, which says yes, and again and again, of just having not only having people stay out of the workplace, they had a big meeting places, but then, you know, not getting too close to each other when they're walking around the street.

Unknown Speaker  18:52  
That's right. That's right. And, and I think

Unknown Speaker  18:55  
the other countries that I think have done reasonably well, so Estonia, you know, not a surprise, competent country. Israel, I think, has done a pretty good job so far. Right? And generally, the countries that you know, like, you know, Israel, Singapore, Sony, these are these are smart countries with serious people, right? I haven't looked at device numbers, but I wouldn't be surprised if there is.

Unknown Speaker  19:17  
So they're also they're, you know, they're smart countries with serious people, etc. There are also a lot of them are either very authoritarian, or much more authoritarian than the US, including a country like Israel, which, you know, for a variety of national security reasons. People they're put up with a much more invasive day to day presence of the state. You're a libertarian. I mean, you're one of the kind of libertarian visionaries for this horrible decade that has just started. How do you how do you feel about that kind of stuff? Or you know, your I don't believe you to be an anarchist or anything. I'm certainly not but you know, how do we know that this is the time where you say, Okay, you know what, we do have to cede extra control to the state for a certain period of time? Or is this just the beginning of, of a lockdown that really never gets released?

Unknown Speaker  20:08  
So I want to in a very polite way contest the premise, I woke up, actually, I wouldn't.

Unknown Speaker  20:14  
You don't have to be polite, by the way. I

Unknown Speaker  20:17  
mean, yeah, I understand why you you thought of that premise. But I would actually not call myself a libertarian. And I think I've actually been consistent about that over the years, I'm sympathetic to certain libertarian concepts and ideas. But you know, I'm, here's, here's my mental model, and I tweeted about this, or whatever. I think the ideal is a competent, centralized government, which you can effectively sign the social contract with the terms of service by immigrating there. So you immigrate to Israel immigrate to Singapore, and by immigrating there, you're effectively just like, you know, you sign up for Facebook, you sign up for Google, there's there's Terms of Service. And if you don't like them, you at least have the Back button, you can leave and you don't, you're not mandated to. Now, that's not completely ideal, because there's Facebook pixels, Google pixels that will track you across well done. ideologies there. But let's say at a high level, you can make that analogy, right, you could, if you enter the society, here's kind of sentence contract, if not, um, so a competent, centralized government. Um, you know, for example, like, you know, I personally would prefer not to own a firearm, I personally prefer a government that controls crime, to an extent that I can actually trust in that government to protect my family and property and what have you. And I think Singapore is like that, you know, now, with that said, if the best is a competent, centralized government, the worst is a malicious centralized government, like USSR, you know, like, like Cuba, or North Korea or what have you. And then, you know, not quite as bad as that, but certainly quite bad. is an incompetent centralized government as distinct from actively malicious. And of course, there's, there's gradations of that, okay, now, but like, let's say where the US is right now. Right. Um, you know, at city, state and federal levels, we have not seen phenomenal leadership, on the Coronavirus crisis. In fact, we haven't seen phenomenal leadership in quite a while, you can argue that, um, you know, the peak of the USA was roughly bracketed by 1933. And 1968, you know, so 1933, Hoover Dam 1945, Manhattan Project 1968. Apollo, that was a period of peak centralization, when the US government actually got a lot of the technical talent, and was able to build and ship big things. And, um, before and after that period, you actually have the technical talent. And I'm not saying technical talent is everything. But it's a lot, you know, you had the technical talent, you know, before that era, the quote robber barons and you know, who captains of industry, you were building railroads, and aviation, the Wright brothers, all those kinds of people, then afterwards, you have all the tech CEOs and investors and hedge fund folks to, you know, to some extent, and whatnot. Um, so, what's my point? My point is, while the best is a competent, centralized government, and the worst is a malicious government, and the second worst, by a big jump, it's still bad is incompetence. In between a competent and an incompetent, centralized government is the decentralized response.

Unknown Speaker  23:30  
So what are they? Yeah, what are the what are the best elements of the decentralized response? And how much of that is coming from non governmental agencies? So, you know, and how important are the Yeah, let's talk a little bit about that.

Unknown Speaker  23:43  
Yeah. So when I say the decentralized response, I So certainly, very specifically, it's things like the Gates Foundation, working with welcome and MasterCard, and Wellcome Trust, actually, it is a government funded organization, in part, but, um, the Gates Foundation putting up money to fund at home tests because the state is failing, right? But it's, it's not just decentralized medicine. Um, you know, it is a decentralized media. Because, you know, like, for example, a recent big chunk of the centralized media field here, you know, 10 journals failed. And I call it centralized, by the way in the sense of it's culturally centralized, even though it's 10, or 20, different outlets, they all work in each other's kind of things, and all in the same social network. Right? So decentralized medicine, decentralized media, this is this virus crisis is going to become a financial crisis. If it isn't already on a ton of money is going to be printed. So you're going to need decentralized finance brings us back to crypto, um, you need decentralized preparation, because your you know, city or state is probably going to say nothing to see here until suddenly the tsunami descends upon it right. And, and that's what I mean by the decentralized response is in you know, while I'd prefer a Singapore or Israel or an Estonia, which is actually capable of taking care of these things, essentially, as a service provider, you know, I at that government, and they take care of stuff for me in the same way that, you know, I don't have to think about, I don't know, my, my Dropbox, right, I pay Dropbox. If that is not the case, then I still want to be able to do it myself. And that's where the decentralized response comes in. Does that make sense?

Unknown Speaker  25:18  
Yeah, I think so. And, you know, and in this model, the blurring of private and public, or private and public is kind of blurred and a lot of ways, right.

Unknown Speaker  25:27  
Yeah. I mean, like, one thing I think a lot about is on the reason that I support, you can make the difference between let's say, principled and pragmatic, libertarian leaning people, right? The principled libertarians are against something on a matter of principle, right? That is to say, even if I'm, let's take quarantine as actually a good, you know, example, Dr. Ford exit, because then the rights of individual karma, even if it's actually worse for society, and the individual, right, and I don't mean worse in a theoretical way, I mean, worse in it, like die of a contagious virus kind of way, right? I'm a pragmatic libertarian, though, is basically someone who's like, okay, cure.

Unknown Speaker  26:13  
Sometimes, let's,

Unknown Speaker  26:17  
um, and, you know, we should support the policies that maximize utility, for example, two important General has fairly free markets, they're fairly pro free trade, but they don't hesitate to kind of step in and put a thumb on the scale if necessary, just for example, they actually did put price controls on top of masks, and they issued a bunch of free masks to deal with this crisis. Right. And, and I very much at least Personally, I put myself in that second camp of the pragmatic, because the goal is human flourishing. And that doesn't mean being rigidly ideological might be

Unknown Speaker  26:50  
right. Do you think, you know, with something like, you know, putting price controls on, you know, it could be, it could be breather mass, it could be hand sanitizer, it could be any number of things. Does that actually work? in America? I mean, on a level of pragmatics.

Unknown Speaker  27:06  
So So I mean, the thing about it is, let's, let's see, there's kind of three levels of doing something, right, let's take unipress controls. Level One is like the really dumb polis put price controls, because we hate these corporations are trying to chip people and so on. Level Two is the smart version, which is actually on if you impose price controls is going to cause shortages. And that's going to be a problem, because these manufacturers, you know, in a time of huge demand won't have the capital to go and purchase more, right? level three is for the maintenance of social stability in a panicky time, we will do something like impose price controls, but also otherwise subsidize manufacturers on the back end to go and purchase more masks.

Unknown Speaker  27:51  
So talk to Yeah, no, I I have when I say I understand I don't necessarily agree, but I'm interested in kind of fleshing out this, you know, this picture of how government and other parts of society work in in a crisis situation, a bunch of you mentioned before, second, second, and third order health effects and kind of things that will show up down the line a bit. Right now, Donald Trump administration and Congress, I think you alluded to it before, we're going to see some kind of massive stimulus project here in order to, to hopefully quiet the markets or to make people think that everything's not going down the drain. What are the types of stimulus projects? If you think they should be, there should be? What are the types of things that you think would work and what do you think are going to be counterproductive?

Unknown Speaker  28:41  
So let me say that basically, um,

Unknown Speaker  28:45  
you know, extend, I think is a rothbardian ism. You know, you said, like, war is to help the state right.

Unknown Speaker  28:52  
Now, I think it's actually random born but

Unknown Speaker  28:54  
Okay, fine. Fine. Yeah. You got it? Yeah.

Unknown Speaker  28:56  
Yeah. Okay. So, um, you know, like, crisis is to help the state. Right. And, in many ways, I think, you know, you can kind of slot in pandemic, as being an even more severe version of many of the debates we've had on terrorism over the last 20 years. And, you know, then crime goes to like a, like less version of each of those, as you go up the scale from crime to terrorism to pandemic, you start giving government powers to constrain law abiding people, you know, in ways you know, that, that normally you wouldn't agree with, right? Because the threat goes so high, right? Like, the pandemic, you're talking about, basically putting 11 million people in jail without any probable cause, you know, house arrest, right. Um, so, you know, the tricky part about this here's I'm not saying all the you know, ethical answers or what have you, but in late January as wrestling with this, because, frankly, while I thought you know, I'd certainly known pandemic was a possibility. You know, this is kind of like sci fi territory. You know, this is something which I would have considered. You describe the current scenario. To me back in November, I would have said, Look, you know what? Yes, it's a challenge to the theory of exit as prime. But why don't we cross the bridge when we come to it right. Now that bridge is being crossed? So we have to come to what are the philosophical issues at play? Right. So here's a few things I would say. First is, um, you know, Ben Gurion had a really good mental framework on before Israel became independent. There's a time when, you know, there's a white paper that the British had issued that he disagreed with, and essentially opposed, you know, the independence of Israel. But at the same time, they were allied to the British to fight the Nazis. So we had one layer where he said, We shall fight the white papers, if there is no war, we should fight the Boers if there's no white paper, okay? Meaning that while they would argue the secrecy against the white paper, they wouldn't undermine the British in their fight against the Nazis. And while they would ally with the British against Nazis, they would not give up their aspirations for independence at some point, right? Make sense? He recognized that these two goals work in a sense in combat, successfully achieved because they defeated Nazis, and they got it right. You know, like, over time, it took a few years, but it worked. Right. So So that's kind of how I think about this, um, you know, from from the utilitarian standpoint, there's no point in freedom if you're dead, in the sense of, I understand Live Free or Die. But, and I agree with it, in many ways, but

Unknown Speaker  31:37  
died.

Unknown Speaker  31:39  
I'm not sure about picking one line on it. But you know, like, just randomly dying from a virus that you could prevent, for some sacrifice of freedom for a little bit of time does not seem to me to be a good trade off. For me. utilitarian simple, right. One

Unknown Speaker  31:51  
of you know, one of the other kind of questions about a lot of this stuff is, you know, Robert Higgs, the economic historian and wrote a book called crisis and Leviathan talks about how, you know, and it's very much in in the the ballpark that we're talking about here that the state looks at a crisis, it it asserts certain types of power, it flexes out when the crisis has passed, you know, the power doesn't go away, stay some part of it or all of it. So how do you guard against that? Because then we have been seeing, you know, it whether in terms of economics, whether in terms of certainly surveillance and certain types of national security things for all of this 21st century, flex by government? How do whatever is coming down the line? How do we make sure that the government gives back most of the power that that have built up in itself?

Unknown Speaker  32:42  
So this is actually I think I tweeted something like this. I feel that I got it, right. I mean, we'll see. But I think I got it right early on, because it reminded me a lot of post 911 period, so tweeted on February 3, was on you know, like sometimes the solution creates the next problem. My roof forecast in the future the Coronavirus results in quarantines, nationalism, centralization, and this may actually work to stop the spread. But once over control states will not see their powers. So we decentralized, right? And so my answer is, I'm not sure you can work within the system to take away powers once they've been granted. I also don't think that you should undermine you know, like quarantines that, you know, could, you know, go and spread of deadly virus to lots of people because then you're storing everybody, right? However, to reconcile those two incompatible things, just like Ben Gurion and the white paper work, I think the answer is we make the hard choice to work with the quarantines and so on in the present day, sacrifice some freedom in order to, you know, like, quell the virus. And then we work on decentralized technologies, like decentralized medicine and other kinds of things to enable people to prepare in the future more easily, especially if they're in regions where the government is incompetent.

Unknown Speaker  34:09  
Let's uh, let's get to that what the decentralization will look like in a second because that I'm actually more interested in because you know, the crisis is upon us and things are going to happen. But when we talk about quarantines, can we be more specific New Rochelle, New York Governor Andrew Cuomo, here in the state of New York has created a containment area of about a mile square mile radius and is certain but whatever diameter in New Rochelle, New York, it doesn't mean that people aren't allowed to leave the house. It doesn't mean that they can't go to grocery stores and etc. But the National Guard is there to bring food to people who can't get out otherwise to clean up stuff, etc. When we're talking about quarantines in America, what are we talking about and what is except what's an acceptable quarantine? You know, currently or and how does that change

Unknown Speaker  34:59  
so, So the containment zone is basically like, okay, on a one to 10 scale, I've given it like, I guess, two, because at least it's directionally in the zone of, okay, we need to do something to contain this thing, right? However, there's many problems with it. First is, um, it's pre announced by two days, since, like, you know, like, that's exactly what happened, we move on all these people fled haven't really always been sled.

Unknown Speaker  35:26  
But it's also that's understandable, too, right. And particularly an authoritarian regime, people in Wu Han knew what was coming, and they're like, I'm getting the fuck out of here. Because if I, if I present to the government, you know, I don't know if I'll ever come back. And,

Unknown Speaker  35:40  
you know, is it is something where like, this is, it is essentially, here's one way of thinking about it. Um, this is like a wartime scenario, in the sense of, you know, you if you talk about like the anarchist monarchist division, right, right, monarchist, it's like, okay, the state has legitimate powers in terms of crime and punishment. Right? And if you think about this, it's kind of like the world is being invaded by a virus, right? Not by the Germans, or the Russians, or what have you, but by a virus, and we're non compliant with regulations has no budget, it's completely centralized, its objective is to kill you and spread, you know, it's committing murder all the time. And so in those cases, like, you know, if you're fighting a war, you unfortunately, like somebody has to be greatest good for the greatest number of decisions does, you know, and sometimes those are zero sum decisions, one person does have a downside, in order for others to have an upside or vice versa, right. And, in the case of one, for example, absolutely understand why somebody from their one to two fleet was in their interest if they weren't sick, to get outside this quarantine zone, which they might get sicker. You know, if they were held on their hand, you also understand why the people outside does not want people from abroad to flee, because they didn't want that, you know, sickness come to them. So that unfortunately, it's just a diagonally misaligned kind of thing. Right? When for one, this loss for the other, and vice versa. There's no obvious winnaman there other than maybe some compensation for people in the quarantine zone, which is what Iceland is doing by pointing. Right. Um, and that might be a smart thing to do, by the way, you know, you get some social credit, some payback, it's not fully compensatory, maybe partially. So, you know, things descending on us so quickly that people haven't thought through things like that. Um, but, you know, one thing also Priam By the way, some people will quote that, you know, quote, like those who give up some freedom for a little security deserve neither their hand that's also I don't think it's pragmatic in the sense of, you know, the counter argument. Another American quote is, you know, freedom isn't free. Right. Right. Meaning that some sacrifices required. And you know, that I think that is also true. You know, it doesn't you don't you don't build a society that some things like, Cutlass come back to your original point, though. So, you're talking about on? How should we think about mandatory quarantines? Right. And I think, you know, and especially, let's take the New Rochelle example, I think America is managing to do things in the worst way. Oh, really? Okay. Here's why. Because, um, the containment zone is not a quarantine, it gets people to flee. It's pre announced on it is, so if you're doing it, you do it. You know, like, run actually quarantine in place, and you stop people from leaving. It's not an optional thing. But if you if you announce it, then people think, oh, it might become mandatory. Let me get out before that happens. And you actually accelerate the distribution of viruses, like bursting spores, you push them out, right? So that's actually like the worst of the three options. Don't do it, do it? Or pre announce it, and then do it. That third one is actually one that spreads the most.

Unknown Speaker  38:49  
So what I mean, are you would you recommend, or how do you recommend, and it's interesting to talk to somebody who is, you know, seriously, you know, in line to be the FDA Commissioner where you know, and we can talk about, you know, the way in which the FDA and the CDC and whatnot are either doing well or bad, but like, would you go to, you know, where would you say, okay, we're having a mandatory quarantine? Or is it everywhere in the country? I'm in the Lombardy region of Italy, and the industrial powerhouse of Italy is under a form of quarantine. I mean, are we telling people not? Yeah, okay, so. So, do we say, nobody's leaving the country, nobody's coming in, or if they're coming in, they have to be, you know, quarantined for a couple of weeks before they're allowed to go to their final destination.

Unknown Speaker  39:34  
I mean, I think that's probably what's going to happen. Because basically, you know, something that was a preventable thing. We've had a cascading failure where basically we're flying blind, thanks to the CCS case definition syncs to the FDA cdrh Division, impeding emergency use authorizations for all these labs and bottlenecking testing during a critical period in February. Thanks to all of that. basically everybody was and still is, in some ways in a sense of kind of complacency. They thought, you know, always been contained, you know, Trump's been tweeting, oh, it's only so many cases, actually, it's probably more like 10,000 plus cases, you know. And the reason I get that estimate is when Trevor Bedford profit UW got finally you don't get some sequence data out of these viruses to viral strains, you estimate that in Washington alone, there's large luck, there's likely an outbreak of size 570, there was like a week ago, right? Um, so. So, you know, almost certainly there's like 10 10,000 plus in the US, and we're gonna, we're gonna final. And so what I think is going to happen is we've traded, the de facto decision by the FDA and CDC to the FDA, in particular, it's not approved diagnostics, has meant that our indicator is going to be deaths, right? And hospitalizations, we're going to only take this seriously once we basically disabled our early warning system. And so we're only going to take it seriously when just a bunch of people start piling up in emergency rooms, which is happening, by the way in Washington and California. When will we know?

Unknown Speaker  41:16  
When would you know what, when what When will we know that the you know that the infection is peaked?

Unknown Speaker  41:24  
Well, no, that is Pete when we have massive diagnostic capability. And I'm talking like hundreds of thousands of millions of tests a day, right? Because an infectious disease right to testing somebody once is not sufficient, you may need to retest them multiple times. So you need an absolutely massive diagnostics effort. Number one, and because you know, the thing is, it's not how many cases you have, it's how many cases you have, and how many tests you ran to determine that. If you didn't run a lot of tests, then you're like the person looking for the quarter on the lamppost, right. So we'll only know it's Pete, if we have massive diagnostic testing capability, we're tracking new cases per day really rigorously across the country. And then we're seeing that peak come down.

Unknown Speaker  42:12  
And you don't see in I mean, it's kind of fascinating to talk to a, you know, a kind of profit of decentralization. And we're effectively doing a decentralized response in the US, because different states, different localities are doing all sorts of things. The federal government is largely, you know, I mean, it's only getting its act together. Now, the private sector, the nonprofit sector is doing stuff, but you I mean, basically, that, you know, that's a big mistake for this particular situation.

Unknown Speaker  42:43  
Yeah, I mean, the decentralized response is better than nothing. But it is significantly worse than a competent centralized government. Yeah. And when we're thinking about it, is if you bucket this into the national security category, you know, this is that's, that's, you know, monarchists would agree this fall into security, it's something that's like an invasion of country by miners, right. Um, and, you know, so what I think is going to happen, where, let's say what I think is possible. Okay, just given what's happened other places given what's happening in New York, I think it's possible that blue cities get quarantined by red troops.

Unknown Speaker  43:23  
Okay, that should end well right.

Unknown Speaker  43:26  
You know, that's that that's what we're on track for unfortunately, I hope we avoid it. So this

Unknown Speaker  43:30  
is the full a Mega Man scenario, right of i was, you know, the 1971 Charlton Heston movie where a some kind of chemical bomb wreaks mayhem and turns turns people into hippies actually albino hippies. Okay, and Charlton Heston is one of the last regular people left. But your people are put under lockdown. It's martial law, you can be shot if you are seen wandering around the streets after a certain point. I mean, that's essentially what you think, is the response that is necessary.

Unknown Speaker  44:05  
The issue is I don't think that America is capable of properly calibrating response. Okay. So it's either apathy or it's going to be this incredible bureaucratic overreaction, which is going to be essentially an internal TSA. Yeah.

Unknown Speaker  44:22  
Let's talk a little bit about the, the, the ways in which the Coronavirus is forcing us or may force us to rethink things are if we're smart about it, we'll actually come up with new ways of doing things. You talked recently in in a tweet about how TSA you know, I mean, you're saying we're going to we're going to be going through an internal TSA for the entire country. You talked about how, how actually the way TSA screens things now is exactly the wrong way to do things. Can you expand a little bit about that?

Unknown Speaker  44:53  
Yeah, so well, first of all, it's not hygienic. You know, they are basically patting people down. I don't know if you've seen these. The, of course you've seen them, but at airports, the checkpoints where you've got conveyor belts, these buckets that you put stuff in there filthy, the Chronicle put their shoes in them. It's awful. Right? And

Unknown Speaker  45:16  
so it's literally just it's a salad bowl. Yeah.

Unknown Speaker  45:18  
The mix together to make sure like, if you didn't have something, you know, if you if you come in clean by the end of when you're picking up your shoes, you're dirty. So

Unknown Speaker  45:27  
that's exactly right. And I mean, especially coming up SFO, like, you know, SFO streets are not the night, but yeah,

Unknown Speaker  45:34  
I flew out of there, like two days ago, or a week ago. So thank you, but

Unknown Speaker  45:38  
yeah, exactly. Yes. Yeah. So so what i what i think you could replace that with, um, you know, especially given that these three TSA agents have come up, you know, I'm positive for Coronavirus and probably patting people down in San Jose. I think you just abolished I mean, in an intelligent country, in a competent country, if you felt that you still had to screen for things, okay? Because, yeah, it's possible someone gets a gun or a knife on a plane, or probably, as consumer wants some form of screening, that terrorism is is a real thing. Um, do today, Josh wolf Mariko tweeted about it. It's basically like non invasive scanning, they'll just detect whether or not you have the guns or whatever. I mean, the the imaging is there for that. And then no agents, no one touches you or whatever. And you can even use thermal cameras, and potentially other kinds of sensing to determine Does someone have a fever? or What happened? That's what they're doing. Now, like, will the US actually do that? I'm skeptical, maybe maybe in like smart regions? But I don't know.

Unknown Speaker  46:43  
Can we talk about other areas? You know, you you have talked over the years about kind of decentralization of things like the workplace and whatnot, or the workforce? Are there ways in which, you know, and I don't want to be as ridiculous as kind of making lemons out of, you know, a pandemic virus or something like that. But, you know, people are being told, okay, if you can work from home, you know, disperse yourselves kind of reliably, or how, what are some of the positive ways that we can take this moment to think about redoing, you know, certain kinds of social, economic political organization that we take for granted that probably is not particularly efficient, are useful for this point in time anyway?

Unknown Speaker  47:27  
That's a good question. So I think one analogy would sort of be, you know, in World War Two women went to work. And then after they went to work as a wartime measure, but afterwards, there was a new normal, right? And women were now in the workforce, and it was just a different, different thing. Right? Yeah. And by analogy, I think, you know, one of my friends said something like 2020 is the year the future historians will write the internet actually became better like the this century actually began because we're basically in a chaotic way. We're doing like a nice tweet about this, like a digital Dunkirk evacuation, braking retreat to the cloud, to escape the lightning offensive of the virus, you know, to join it, like retrieves the cloud. Um, and, and the thing about that is we're turning the cloud into like the primary place, we are conducting work and other kinds of things. Because the whole new argument for using, you know, Internet technology, that argument is hygiene. Right, the remote argument for hygiene, I mean, that that, that shift, something that is happening already is something that is the default way to do it. Like by default, for example, you want on touchless faucets, right? By default, you want remote capable jobs, by default, you want autonomous taxis, and so on, and so forth. Because it's more hygienic. And this stuff is already happening. But that adds like 20 or 30 points of population support for it. So it's going to accelerate a ton of things like that. That is a silver

Unknown Speaker  48:56  
lining for this. Yeah, I love the idea of a digital Dunkirk, I think that really gets a lot of what's going on and also what might be might actually be truly useful and kind of pathbreaking going forward. Can you talk a bit about the kind of Is there a generational element to all of this? I mean, and and there is clearly in the sense that if you're over 70, you are much more likely to die, you know, the baby boom generation. And I guess the last remnant of the quiet agenda, the silent generation. I mean, they're being pushed off the stage, this seems to in a weird way, B kind of accelerating that in terms of kind of cultural, economic, political power. We're almost certainly witness. I would like to believe that we're witnessing the last presidential election where it's all about, you know, various people who are close to 80 years old. But what you know, is there a generational thing going or how does the generational split, which seems to be growing significantly in America, you know, on a daily basis? How is that influencing our interest? With the Coronavirus.

Unknown Speaker  50:02  
Well, so um,

Unknown Speaker  50:05  
it certainly I mean, one thing that's definitely the case is all of these politicians are in the maximum danger area for Coronavirus, and yet they're still shaking hands are still at rallies and whatnot, it's actually mind blowing to me. Oh, you know, I don't even understand it. Um,

Unknown Speaker  50:25  
so well, and they can't not do it right. Because if they don't do it, then they look weak and that they're about to die. If they do do it, you know, they might get infected and actually die. So

Unknown Speaker  50:36  
I guess, though, but but I mean, like, you know, the types of visa? Yeah, there's, there's certainly, I think a way to phrase this in terms of leadership. And maybe you start holding digital rallies and do periscopes and stuff like that, you know, you can actually it's actually easier to hold a larger crowd, guess what, you know, they can always connect live, you don't need a venue, you can, you can just hold it every single day of massive rally with a million people. Right. Um, so I think what's going to happen is things that were previously fully offline like rallies, conferences, K through 12, education, health care, stuff that sort of resistant the internet. We're all forced into these digital conferences, on, you know, online education, telemedicine, all of those kinds of things, areas of, you know, like, for example, remote legislation that's going to come, right, all these areas that are previously approved, resistant to the internet, are now Just kidding, fully loaded from the ground and pulled into the cloud. And people are going to be forced to operate that way for a while. And you know, that has some salutary. I mean, in the short term that's chaotic, it's going to cause a lot of dislocation and so on. He does have salutory long term benefits because we basically learn how to modernize certain areas that have proven systems.

Unknown Speaker  51:51  
All right, I think we're gonna leave it there. That's a good note to end on. We've been talking with Balaji Srinivasan about the Coronavirus and what how do we get past a, you know, how do we we live in a borderless world with a borderless virus. So,

Unknown Speaker  52:07  
yep. I think that borders will come back with this and but what is something?

Unknown Speaker  52:12  
All right, I hope so. Thanks very much. Take care.

Transcribed by https://otter.ai
