Unknown Speaker  0:18  
This week we're going to hear about applications. And first speaker is going to be Balaji Srinivasan is joining us remotely from zoom, and he's going to talk to us about applications today and some that we think are exciting on the near term horizon. Okay, so with that, I'm gonna get straight into the presentation, so we can turn it over to Balaji, who's going to join us on the screen here?

Unknown Speaker  0:45  
There it is. Hello. Hey, Balaji.

Unknown Speaker  0:48  
So, my name is Balaji Srinivasan, I've got a new project at Nakamoto calm, which you can check out basically like a crypto blog. But today I'm gonna talk about crypto applications, just to give a little overview of who I am. So it's a rare photo of me in a suit, you know, maybe, like last time in few years, and my background. So you know, Stanford, grad, PhD in electrical engineering MSc in chemical engineering, I founded a genomics company, which ended up selling to mariadb. For 375, the general partner at Andreessen sold a crypto company to call earned comm to Coinbase in service CTO, basically being an early crypto person and venture investor, an angel investor, and so on. And I met Twitter at Balaji. So if you have any questions about the talk, you can just DM me there or ask me so happy to answer questions. Okay, so just jumping in on, say, I want to talk about kind of crypto applications in, you know, in 2020. And then also beyond, like, you know, things are at scale in 2020. And then, beyond that point, before we get to those applications, I want to talk through a little bit of the history of how we got to the present moment, and some some kind of underpinning concepts behind all crypto projects, and then talk about the applications kind of with that with that mental framework.

Unknown Speaker  2:11  
So first history, let's talk briefly about why Bitcoin is invented in the first place. And this may be obvious to some of you, but for those for whom it's not on, let's go through this quickly. So the idea is, you know, if you start with physical cash, something you take for granted with physical caches, if I go and I hand Jesse $1, Bill, then I no longer have that dollar bill, and Jesse has it. And we take for granted the fact that that dollar bill can't be in two places at the same time. It's it's a physical object can only be in one place at a time. So if we try to translate that naively into the digital realm, and we take the serial numbers on that Federal Reserve Note, and we say, hey, well, that's a that's a unique identifier, why don't we email that? Why don't I email that to Jesse, the issue is that I still have a copy of the serial numbers. And I could go and email it to Kim or to or to mark or to Ben. And so there isn't an inherent form of scarcity in the digital realm, unlike in the physical realm where that that dollar bill is actually only in one spot at a time. So so naive digital cash doesn't work. This is called the so called double spending problem, because there isn't a native form of scarcity. And the way that we solved this prior to the invention of Bitcoin and still used, you know, very, very frequently today is to have a central trusted party, a bank or a financial institution, which takes a debit from a and then goes and credits B. Okay. And by doing this, we've now introduced a third party into the equation, and I'm trusting this the central actor, we're trusting them to debit A into credit B. And with that trust comes power, because they you know, this this kind of institution can, for example, deny a payment, or it can credit itself you know, it with quantitative easing, you know, via via central bank system. But from a computer science topology, it's generally inelegant to have a privileged node if you can avoid it. And so what Satoshi Nakamoto did was still to come up with a decentralized data structure, the blockchain and essentially had something over here where we're basically miners so rather than having a centralized actor, a bank that was debiting and crediting Satoshi replace it with a decentralized network of these miners who each compete to debit a and credit be and if any one of them decides for a reason not to try to mine a transaction, the other ones will mine that transaction, because anybody who mines transactions gets rewarded in Bitcoin for doing so. And so, a critical mass for them would have to collude in order to stop a from transmitting money to be and they're highly incentivized to, to not do that. And so this is kind of the magic of Bitcoin is it replaced the centralized actor a bank with a bunch of competing You know, entities called miners that that carry out the same transaction approval process and also the money money generation process. Okay? So that's that's kind of why Bitcoin was invented, which is to give an analog of physical cash that solves the presence of a digital analog or digital cash. It's also the presence of the central actor, okay? Now, this entity over here, this blockchain is something that got abstracted out. And, you know, basically, once you've solved the problem of having a database of all the money in the world, or all the Bitcoin in the world, you can do lots of other things. You can think of the blockchain as a tamper resistant database for storing things of value. So of course, you could use it to send or receive Bitcoin with development of Ethereum about five years after the launch of Bitcoin. This is a new blockchain that essentially was more programmable than than Bitcoin. So writing a program in Bitcoin is like an assembly language like thing over here, but to use aetherium, solidity, you know, it looks more like JavaScript. And actually, it's kind of like JavaScript in the sense of, it's easy to shoot yourself in the foot, but with solidity, but nevertheless, it was more accessible to write programs rather than why'd you why'd you want to write programs. Well, so you know, rather than just debit a and credit B, you might want to debit a, and then credit B today, and C tomorrow and d x Thursday, and E if some condition is hit, and so on, and so forth. Right? That's what like smart contract programming is. And so because you could write, you know, more sophisticated contracts in aetherium, that led to the Ico boom. And, you know, the Ico boom in 2017 2018 was kind of like the.com boom, where sharks raise millions, in some cases, billions of dollars. And, you know, folks raise, you know, $35 million, in 30 seconds, all kinds of money flowed in, um, and like, the.com, boom, there's a boom and bust. And many of those, you know, coins that got funded, it dropped like 90% or more. And

Unknown Speaker  6:57  
this, though, was something where if you just look at from a technological standpoint, the capital formation rails that were put in place, were, you know, an Ico is like the simultaneous disruption of venture capital, swift crowdfunding and cap tables, because you're, you're doing startup investment, you're doing all these international wires, during large numbers of people do it at the same time. And you have something called a capitalization table or cap table, which is the it's kind of the system of record, which says, Who owns what stock, that kind of thing is also pulled into the blockchain with these Icos. So it's actually very important technologically, even if not all of these companies are successful. Then after 2018 2019 to 2020, now we're in you know, we're in the crypto winter in 2019 2018. And now we're kind of maybe in the summer for innovation, where, you know, a lot of the decentralized finance stuff, which we'll get to is really starting to work on, you've got interest, you've got loans you've got, you've got all these applications, and things are starting to work in crypto, it's kind of potentially laying the ground for the maybe the next boom. So, um, alright, so that gets us to the present day sounds talk about some concepts and start with technological concepts. So, you know, one thing we touched on earlier is, you know, a blockchain is a database for storing things of value. So, you know, digital gold and and, you know, cash, but also tokens like an Ico boom, digital assets as well. So, you know, in game items or real estate, these are called non fungible because, you know, one piece of real estate is not the same as another, whereas $1 bill is fungible, it's a covenant to another, and then there's like identity, right, so present proof identity to demonstrate that you possess an asset. So, um, you know, cash, you know, equity alternatives, digital assets, identity, these are all things where you can kind of store them in a blockchain because they're valuable things, you know, identity for example, this is kind of a sub routine that was even required for Bitcoin or theorem in the first place, you have to present a effectively digital signature to show that you owned Bitcoin or theorem before you could move it, and so on, this has been factored out as its own thing. And just like if you can do identity theft, well then identities a valuable thing to steal. So that's kind of thing that you might want to store in a blockchain and in some fashion. So that's one way to think about blockchains. And you can also think of them from a different angle in terms of a protocol. So you know, Bitcoin is a protocol, and these crypto protocols have turned payments into packets. And I mean that in the most literal sense, you know, here is TCP Transmission Control Protocol, here's IP Internet Protocol, and Bitcoin called runs on top of that, and you can actually see a block over here. And it's basically fully packet driven transmission of value without reference to your bank because in these bytes you don't see, um, you know, like, the USA or the Netherlands you don't see Wells Fargo or HSBC. Don't see countries you don't see bank names, you just see bytes. Um, it's really an internet native way of sending money. Which is cool because once we developed internet waves, needed ways of sending books Music and, you know, songs and things like that. Probably we got the internet revolution. So it's pretty impressive. Third concept once, once you've turned, you know, payments into packets, that means that machines can now hold and send money. So you can paste in a string of bytes over here. And voila, now you can actually have a script that like sends money, right? And that's completely new. You know, you can actually have a script that makes money for you when you sleep. This is like, you know, an intelligent agent that people talked about for 20 years, what's actually there now? You can these primitive intelligent agents that go around or more sophisticated to actually do trades indexes and are essentially, you know, decentralized exchanges are essentially making money for you just by trading online. It's a script that actually holds the money itself intrinsically.

Unknown Speaker  10:50  
So concept number four, you know, one way of thinking about it is there's a you know, my friend Matt Hong has a great tweet, which is, crypto is underrated from the outside and overrated from the inside. Okay, so how is it underrated from the outside? Well, I'm in many ways blockchains have actually already posted technological improvements, taxes in various areas, for example, 10 x, gold tenex swift syntax gold, why because Bitcoin is lighter, faster, cheaper to transport on the 10 x Swift, you know, aetherium clears in minutes. In any country pair where swift takes days, swift being international wire transfers, on Tex larger than Kickstarter. So, you know, a large crowdfund in 2015, it was like 10, or 15 million, but in 2017, you know, it's like $4 billion, which is like 100 x increase. And regardless of what those things are, that are being funded, simply the mechanism to move that much money and form that pool of capital is remarkable. And then in terms of, you know, like Delaware, right? Um, you know, you can hit enter and slip D in seconds actually have it incorporated into the blockchain and in minutes, and you can set up something that looks a lot like a corporation, on the sense of being able to receive money distributed have, quote, binding contracts at the blockchain and forces and whatnot. And, essentially, this, this is much better than Delaware in many ways, because when people go to Delaware to incorporate a company that can take days, and in many ways, you know, people talk about a measure of economic freedom being the time to incorporate, with smart contracts, you can tax that too. So this gives you a flavor of blockchains of 10 x many financial primitives and 110 x is a big deal. But a lot of them, you know, taxing gold and wire transfers, and VC and crowdfunding and cap tables and incorporation, that's actually a truly structural change and worth worth paying attention to even it hasn't rippled out fully yet. Okay. Um, additionally, you know, the, the, the crypto space is actually already created many millionaires and a few billionaires. So the founders of coins, the miners who run you know, large server farms, or the exchanges that this analogy is used frequently. But I would compare the present moment to roughly 2000 in the internet, because in the 90s, there was this infrastructure phase, and you had Yahoo, and you had AOL. And people everybody had heard of the internet, but not everybody used the internet in, you know, 2000 on a daily basis. And that's very similar to kind of crypto is everybody in finance, everybody in tech is, has heard of, you know, blockchains most people have heard of Bitcoin, even if you're not in finance, for tech, the infrastructure phases there, you've got the coins, the miners and exchanges, the applications are being developed or come to six concepts. So blockchains give you a choice of who to trust. So before you had to store money at a bank, you didn't really have a choice. And afterwards, you can still start at a bank, or at an exchange like Coinbase, or even locally on your computer. And I think this is a better framework than saying trust list. The goal is not to trust no one, it's about having a greater choice of who to trust with custody of valuable assets. So number seven, blockchains, enable internet scale cap tables. So before, um, you'd have something like this like a spreadsheet, basically, which said, What's a cap table it's a capitalization table, is essentially who owns what shares in the company. So Emily Wilson owns 2.61 8 million shares of common stock. Jade Papa's here owns 180 k of series seed A and B stock, right. So this is a liquid a cap table is and you know, it can be said that a cap table is the most important data structure in technology because it underpins every company, right? This you know, modest looking Excel type spreadsheet is who owns what percentage of the company and right now that's basically held on you know, Google Drive or maybe a carta.com, which is an improvement. And and then it's like, you know, this this file is the basis for for millions of dollars being made an IPO. That's how property rights are managed. It is far superior alternative is what the blockchain offers where you can have 50,000 100,000 millions of people who are token holders and you can actually see every transaction back and forth on you know, your international tradable transparent liquid and so on around the clock from Day Zero, the blockchain is keeping track of who owns what, rather than, you know, someone making a scriveners error, you know, locally with an Excel file. So that's, that's a pretty big deal, not just the automation of scaling of it from a few hundred people to 10s of thousands or beyond.

Unknown Speaker  15:17  
So, you know, I think of blockchain first as like the the new mobile first, where, you know, blockchain competitors are arising for many legacy businesses in p2p payments, and messaging, and crowdfunding all the payment type stuff, but also in other areas, like, you know, for example, DNS, you people wouldn't have thought that you could, you know, launch competitors to DNS, but you can, so handshake DNS, you know, things like this are actually competitors to the DNS system. And, um, you know, folks like, you know, brave are using this to launch competitors to Chrome, which have crypto built in, and you're seeing like a flowering of innovation across many different verticals, with crypto power competitors. And, you know, that's why I'd say like, you know, blockchain versus kind of like the new new mobile first, it's like a technology that gives you balances it gives you encryption on it gives you a number of primitives to work with. So as a ninth concept, um, we think of blockchains as a tool that founders and and engineers can use to break network effects. So if you take a network like Facebook, it's that scale, you know, billion users, or what have you. It's got a present value over here. And the thing about that is, if you launch a new network, well, it's not Facebook, no one's on it. So why would you use it? Well, now you've got a new tool, which is you can issue your users tokens, and those tokens have upside, which declines as never gets larger. So now you actually give a financial upside to early adopters, and this curve can offset this one. So now you've given like some value to people for joining early, that's a very important concept, because this is kind of like giving equity out to your your employees, or you know, selling equity to your investors, except you're issuing tokens to your users. And while tokens aren't equity, on the upside of them, is something where users can work and they can they can appreciate, right? So so this is really interesting. And it's kind of turning your customers into investor like entities. And that's something that I think will be a very big deal for breaking these network effects. Like the, the scaled social networks are two set of marketplaces. I think blockchains are going to transform social networks in general. You know, before in the last 10 years, we've been liking and poking and messaging each other. And afterwards, we've been doing, you know, on paid messaging, surveys, tasks, etc. And I think this is a major transition from just you know, like, making friends to Haha, making money online. Right. And I think that's, that's important because it starts to actually increase the substance of what we're doing online, it's not just not just wasting time, or communicating, there's not wasting time, but it's pure information goes to transactions as well. Finally, just as an 11th point, I think the blockchain is a partial move away from the cloud towards privacy. So um, you know, ledger soldes million hardware Wallet for storing Bitcoin. Um, you know, this is something where anything that gets to like a million units like this, I think will probably eventually get to a billion might be bundled with phones, like you have a phone, you have a charger to make it a hardware wallet alongside it. And basically, what is a hardware wallet, it keeps your private keys locally, it protects them. And you can think of them as like an anchor, that may lead to other data also being encrypted move locally, like out of the cloud, and, you know, on to devices. And the way that would work is basically that your keys might be kept locally, even if the bulk of the data is remote. It's only decrypted when you present your private keys and and for applications like Dropbox or Gmail, that's actually very feasible to do for the most part because you can have a relatively dumb data stored in the cloud and then present your private key to decrypt it, such as the cloud provider can see it and it's decrypted. You know, for example, client side, there's many modalities that are like that, I think, um, you know, hardware wallets are going to be a big part of pulling some data and some privacy locally. Um, now let's talk about you know, some some concepts on the other side of things. So we talked on the tech side, let's talk on the community side so basically, um, you know, building anything in crypto, you have to really understand the communities whether it's Bitcoin maximalist or a theorem holders, or the XRP. Army on, you know, these are folks who are, you know, they have a simpie part, their identity is bound up in holding this currency. And it's actually kind of interesting. It's like, you know, the folks who live in the US value, the dollar folks who live in Japan Valley, the in on their geographic location is actually more salient for their identity formation. But when you've got folks who are on the internet on it's actually sort of like currency first, as the formation of their identity. They're like bitcoiners or aetherium, ORS or what have you.

Unknown Speaker  20:01  
And, you know, one way of thinking about what that does is, if you just took three, you know, random people off the street, each of them could win or lose on their own. And so, you know, they have no inherent economic linkage, if you have n people, you have to have the impossible win loss combinations with three people, you have to have the third or eight possible been lost combinations. However, if they all hold Bitcoin on well, suddenly they're economically aligned, such they all lose together, or they all win together. And this is an important concept, where basically, you know, if they're holders, none of them can win unless they all win. So blockchains take us from what I consider the slippery slope, the crypto cliff, you know, before you'd have like a registry like the Spain and Catalonia fight or the dot cat domain, somebody could lose a lot catchman it can be shut down by the Spanish government, you might still keep your.com domain so you don't really care. If it happens to them, it might you know, you might feel bad, but it's not really your problem. However, if someone's DNS domain a C is that really means interfering with the theorem blockchain. So it really is your problem as a theorem holder. And I think that's really important dynamic, which turns us from, you know, the slippery slope, where one individual's rights can be aggregated at a time to the crypto Cliff where to see is one person's crypto is to seize everybody's, that's a pretty big deal. So blockchains allow for experiments and self governance on and blockchains any, any sufficiently large group of people can now choose a monetary policy choose an economic policy on that suits them. And so I think we're seeing this really amazing thing where rule of law is being actually encoded. And one of the things this results in is that blockchains make macroeconomics and experimental science. Um, so whatever your thesis on the economy, whether inflationary deflationary demurrage, or what have you, before, this had to be studied in the context of like video games with with virtual points, like Edward castronovo did a lot of the pioneering work here. But now crypto is just taking that next level, and you've got actual billion dollar or larger economies, where you can just set the monetary policy and see what happens. So macroeconomics is finally becoming an experimental science, because people are opting in, and you can run these experiments at large scale, very important to think about these things as we get into the applications we'll come to. So 10s of millions of people and billions of dollars are now invested in these experiments, the companies, the wallets, the percentage of folks, the market cap, right? these these are things where, you know, lots of folks are, you know, the valuations are fairly high, they're not trillions, it's not hundreds of millions or billions using it, but it's definitely 10s of millions. And so what that's resulting in is, you know, this concept of the Laboratory of the states, you know, that different states in the US experiment with different legal regimes, like some will legalize medical marijuana, and others will have, you know, different laws on right to try laws or things like that. This is kind of like that, where you have different coins, with different monetary policies, and they're like a laboratory of laboratory of the states. So that kind of, you know, brings us to applications, right. So everything I just said is useful context furnishing, what kinds of applications you build with crypto, why was invented in the first place? What has been done historically? What can be done with it, etc? Why don't we go into specific applications, starting with the ones that are already at scale as of 2020. So the first group are the ones I already mentioned, exchanges miners, and you know, like, like, issuers have made millions or billions of dollars, right. These are, these are folks who are at a billion plus in revenue, or in current equity sales we're having these are like the infrastructure parts. The second group that is at reasonable scale or the hardware wallet, so ledger is at you know, 100 million plus revenue, at least in 2017. And that's about an order of magnitude less, but it's still it's definitely rising, it's a curve to watch on, and we'll probably built into kind of hardware devices over time. A third group that's it's already at scale, and 2020 that's worth mentioning, is are stable coins. Um, so a stable coin is, you know, like what it sounds like, I'm like a Bitcoin or aetherium. It doesn't wobble doesn't have high volatility on a stable coin is is flat pegged at 1.0 USD. And in theory, it could be pegged to something else, but usually it means stable in USD value. And there's now a few different stable coins out there and they have different ways of doing that peg, some will say they have bank account deposits of US dollars that will back the peg, and others will, you know, have some asset on hand whether Ethereum or something else, which is volatile and oscillates, but which where they say that they're the net value of that is enough to support the peg. So stable coins are at significant traction in $5 billion, nominal store value is actually fairly high

Unknown Speaker  24:49  
and defy so decentralized finance is also at reasonable scale. So since you know late 2018, it's really been soaring and sound like a billion dollars in storage assets on this website, defy pulse. Which, you know, I screenshotted in a little while ago, and you know, like all these things are just rising relatively quietly but But folks are you know, doing well in the space, there's bugs. There's a serious you know, issue like a like a few days ago, but but in general the vector is is up. Okay, so those are things that are at scale in 2020, which are exchanges miners, issuance, hardware wallets, stable coins define. Okay, so what's the stuff that is up and coming stuff that has, you know, green shoots in 2020 and might be big by 2025 this is a this is going to be a long list of things. Um, and you don't have to answer questions. But and I'm not saying every single one of these is successful. But some of them may be okay, so I'm privacy coins on Oh, and by the way, just assume I'm an investor in everything on this and everything in crypto because I can I'll, you know, I I hold lots of privacy coins I hold I'm an investor in lots of these things. But you know, trying to give a neutral mutual kind of thing. So, privacy coins on you know, so dash Mineiro z cash, these are trying to add a layer of privacy over Bitcoin, where essentially, you know, Bitcoin transactions are by their nature transparent in the blockchain, M dash or Manero and z cash in particular are using different technologies to to obscure that. So people have actual financial privacy, similar to the difference between HTTP versus HTTPS, right. Number two, lending and interest. So compound maker, you know, compound is basically where you can earn interest on the blockchain maker, you can do lending. And it's actually an interesting system where you can put down some aetherium. And so long as the theorem price doesn't go down, you get some US dollar equivalent, that you can go and do some of called di, di. In terms of scaling, there's a ton of stuff that's happening, lots of companies doing this, some of these are quasi applications in their own right, like the cosmos SDK, but there's a bunch of different ways to try to scale blockchains. And, you know, these technologies may stack on top of each other on the you know, some of them are exclusive, but many of them are complimentary. So together, these will allow for higher throughput blockchains. And that's an important thing to think of as you're developing applications. decentralized cold storage. So Casa hodl. So basically, they're gaining some traction, interesting company, where they're similar to coin base in some ways, but they basically resolve the paradox where, you know, thesis is people want to store at home, the antithesis is, you know, they, they don't, they don't know how to do that. Technologically, it's like product is not feasible, the synthesis is you, you know, store at home. But you have a service, it's helping you do that, right. So decentralized cold storage, um, another application Stark, where So, you know, this is SAS for gas, right? Basically, you know, smart contracts are on chain and the charge for each API call. So, you know, right now, when you when you set an API, you have to set up a stripe, billing layer, and quite quite a lot of stuff. But it might be the kind of thing where you put a snippet of code there almost like a lambda, it'll this lambda function for fooling with that, put a snippet of code on chain, and just set a billing. And today, you've got a function that can just execute and make you money. So that's what I call sass for gas. Another kind of thing, so insurance, so basically, when smart contracts fail, in theory, you can get a payout. Now, many of these things are themselves written in smart contracts. So you don't know if that'll that'll actually work. But it's, you know, it's certainly an interesting concept. Multi wallets right? So this is something you know, my crypto I think, is one of the best of these, but basically beyond just send and receive, there's buy, sell, sign, vote, stake register, and what have you. And these verbs, you know, and by a verb, I mean, action, I think are going to come to all wallets. So security. So Zen go is the first, since like a like, it's an innovation security, which uses face ID for save and restore, I think you're gonna see this kind of innovation, where becomes easier and easier. And crypto eventually becomes easier to use and harder to lose, then than your traditional money over time.

Unknown Speaker  29:11  
new financial instruments, so far more 3d and pulled together. These are two examples from what 3d was this interesting game theoretic thing, where if you're the last person to deposit money, send money to this address, you'd get the pot on, but if somebody else sent it, then they went ahead of you in the queue. And so the game theoretic thing is, if nobody else is sending it, then you should send some money. But if other people are saying some money, then you shouldn't send some so it's kind of unstable equilibrium. And eventually a guy won by just flooding the blockchain with transactions on the Ethereum blockchain and transactions and then you know, putting their transaction into take the rest of money out was very clever. pull together is kind of a different model where it takes folks lottery like instincts where they want to quit gambled money on and instead what they do is they kind of give lottery like payouts for saving money. So, you know, you could win 1644 every week just by saving your money. And it's clever because it's it's kind of something that takes a lottery like instincts and couples them to actually a pro social behavior of saving money, which is very clever. So these are things that I think would be difficult to do in the traditional financial system. But that now we're starting to see versions of this is very promising area. So watching games, another promising area, so for table, we'll be talking about this. But, you know, there's variants of this some, you know, that have micropayments built in some of them that merge eSports, and crypto, others that you know, have in game potions or things like that. And so, you know, maybe it gives a new, you know, definition to pro gamer, you're just racking up the crypto by playing these games, right? Um, crypto social networks, like, you know, voice and Twitch are two of these, there's a ton of them, these are still in their infancy, there's lots of different theories on how decentralized they need to be, should they be, you know, decentralized, at just the currency levels, it'd be decentralized at the application level, we have to figure all this stuff out. But But some of these are things where the application centralized coin itself is decentralized, and they just kind of go that. So then decentralized DNS, so DNS, unstoppable blockstack handshake, these are essentially domain names that you can programmatically register and then work with, you don't have to go through DNS, and that itself is actually kind of useful, where boom, you can deploy a website and actually get a custom domain just for that website. So actually fully deployed, it's actually better for testing than the current paradigm of staging and testaments of automated market making. Now I'm actually kind of bearish on this, but it's worth mention, um, you know, things like uniswap, or the concept of bonding curves, you know, they're trying to give liquidity to the long tail, such that anybody can come up to effectively a smart contract and, and get a fair price from it back. The tricky part with this is, there's various kinds of market manipulations in theory that you can do outside of that smart contract. And, you know, we'll see if these survive or long term, I'm wishing them well. But it's worth mentioning to understand the concept like an automated, you know, like, like, like market maker. Um, but but we'll see if these work, decentralized identity, so, you know, three boxes good, there's, like, decentralized identity, but these are essentially folks who are trying to use, you know, aetherium or other cryptocurrencies for sign on, and not just payments. And so I think there's something where you might need to see like the equivalent of a Fiat exchange, which lets you exchange fiat currency for cryptocurrency, right, you see something similar, which lets you exchange Fiat identity, like driver's license or passport for a crypto entity of some kind, then, you know, personal tokenisation. So, Reuben Brogan often did something with CSL Spencer, Dinwiddie as long as a token, so folks are issuing tokens for their time or some function of your time, like console, I think this is actually a pretty important and big thing. Mutual's and guilds so Moloch, dow and get coin, so these allow people to vote with their funds for like the direction of protocol development, and the attempt to incentivize like, you know, collective action. And, you know, we'll see if these work, I think the fundamental issue is folks who are investing on, you know, their money in something, then, you know, to simply improve the protocol, there's always a free rider problem where the person who doesn't invest the money can still benefit from improvements to the protocol. So we haven't yet solved that. One possibility is your corporate entity or your you know, very interested individual and you want to steer the protocol in this direction versus that direction. And so like voting with your wallet for development is an interesting model like what how Bitcoin is working.

Unknown Speaker  33:46  
As founders, your word, so just like scaling, this is a kind of a technology or business model thing you should be aware of, is designing applications. So z cash pioneered this concept of Founders Award where people get a cut of the Z cash mining, and other folks are getting this as well, bch and others are they're trying something like this. And this is a new business model for funding developers from awards. And it's interesting because it gives a model for example for progressive decentralization, you know, you can have a Founders Award which you know, in the first few years and then it kind of draws off over time and after 10 years, you don't get anymore without the community re upping you. And that's kind of like a 10 year vest but for a decentralized protocol and it's a clever way of making money for the founders for for developing the thing that still having to be you know decentralized in many other ways. So on chain bounties so tezos you know, basically had this concept where the developer bounty constantly get coin, but putting it on chain, which thing is a novel, novel kind of concept. Um, clients for daps so like in sedap, for example, makes it you know, easy to interface with all these defy applications, kind of like a coin base layer on top developer tools. So alchemy and bison trails, improved API's for get general performance improvements. If If you're you know just sending tons and tons of transactions down to you know the blockchain, you might want some of these as as kind of an intermediary, Oracle's and prediction markets, so arratia augur on she also like chain link and stuff like that, basically, right now you can only really bet on prices on, you know the tyrian blockchain directly. But if other kinds of data feeds are put in there, then you can place bets on those. And auger is live and folks are trying that out. Other folks are trying different kinds of Oracle's as well, to place the data on chain, so you can make bets on it. I'm Dallas. So this is worth I mentioned, kind of, you know, the simplest version of this or the intelligent agents we mentioned earlier, but you could have these organizations with, you know, the A in Dallas, whether they're actually autonomous, or what have you is TBD. But But essentially, it's something where, you know, trading money on these changes is kind of like pure internet arbitrage. Um, and I think you're gonna see that with with intelligent agents, and you're gonna see more besides that come into your organization. So these are collectives, like cooperatives that are owned by their users, and I think you're gonna start seeing that become a lot easier to do with crypto, like a, like a group, it doesn't have to be like a normal Corporation, it could be 1000, folks in a group decide to set up something that's producing goods for the members. And that's kind of cool. It's like a fusion of groups and capitalism and so on online. So that kind of brings us to the close, you know, I surveyed a ton of different kinds of applications there. The goal is just to give a sense of how broad the spaces, and I'm happy to answer any questions or take them maybe Jesse, you can, you can tell me. Yeah.

Unknown Speaker  36:38  
Thanks, Balaji. I'm gonna try and actually join the zoom meetings that you can see folks during the q&a and see if that works.

Unknown Speaker  36:46  
Oh, wow. Lots of people.

Unknown Speaker  36:47  
There's lots of people. Okay, cool. Well, thank you for that presentation. That was great. So yeah, let's open it up to q&a. Does it? Does anyone have questions? And in order for Balaji, to hear you, we're gonna have to give you the mic. So hold your questions, you get a mic.

Unknown Speaker  37:05  
Hi, my name is America, one of the cyber code twins. I'm really interested in the trend of defy, but I saw something very curious or an artist was token was they were using her NFT to collateralize for a loan? Do you see a trend of collateralized gaming instead of just collateralized loans? Because I feel like one you must have money to like participate in defy, but if you have assets, maybe that's a entry to get into the space? Yeah, it's a great question.

Unknown Speaker  37:37  
Fundamentally, that depends upon the price for that asset. And the issue is that, uh, you know, currently, you know, the way that maker or something like that is working is with Ethereum as collateral, and there's a large and robust and global liquid market for what one eth is worth. But if you have a painting or digital painting or something like that, on your you can use as collateral if and only if you have a large enough market to give a price on it. Now, that might be just one person. But that person will have to have some kind of binding contract, they'll buy it back at a certain amount, such that the the person will extend you credit. I think it's possible, I think these markets have to become deep enough to provide pricing for non fungible assets.

Unknown Speaker  38:24  
All right, in the, you know, past, you know, 15 years with Internet companies, a lot of value capture has come from either data, monopolies or attention. And I'm curious for the crypto applications coming up over the next 510 years. Do you see any like large themes of where value capture is gonna come from?

Unknown Speaker  38:43  
Well, it's great question. Um, so I'm actually very bullish on tasking in general. So like, um, you know, we did earn, you know, earn has gotten to several hundred million dollars in sales, under Coinbase, earn, were all of these crypto issuers are, for example, if you're a new user to Coinbase, you can get like $180 in free crypto or Coinbase earn. And the reason for that is, all of these asset issuers are basically paying users to do tutorials and tasks and learn how their coin works, like send a private transaction with z cash, or take out a loan with maker dye, and so on and so forth. So that's cool, because it's the better than free economy. Rather than just try to hack your attention. People are actually paying you for it. And I think that's going to be a major area of tasking. And I think that's going to go from hundreds of millions of sales in the last few years to billions and eventually 10s of billions. So that's kind of one area and crypto uniquely enables that for a lot of reasons, but one that I think is really underappreciated. So if you think of stripe on you know, stripe is a multi billion dollar company like $30 billion company, because it improved over PayPal on Pay ins, right. You know, setting up a forum to just receive credit card payments, people thought of as a solved problem is actually a huge pain with PayPal and stripe, you know, made that much better and therefore improve begins. But if pay ins on the internet It were hard pay outs are even harder. And one way of thinking about that is if you just think to yourself, okay, how many websites have you put a credit card into? It's probably dozens, if not hundreds, we've say how many websites have you put your bank account into to get paid? That's actually much smaller, right? It's probably like, you know, maximum five to 10. And usually not even that, maybe if you're an Airbnb host, an Uber driver, maybe PayPal has it Coinbase has it, but not too many websites have your bank account information because a bank website, your bank information can debit rather than credit. So improving pay outs on the internet is something crypto does since with earn, for example, we could pay out 10,000 people by hitting Enter. Right? So that's why I'm very bullish on tasking and earning and so on in general. And I hope that actually helps make the internet more positive some, because right now, there's a lot of fighting on and it would be better if folks accumulated, you know, $10,000 rather than 10,000 likes? You know, I think that's like one major area I could give others, but that's fine.

Unknown Speaker  41:03  
Hey, Balaji, thank you for the presentation. I have a question for you with regards to social. So I see sort of a lot of dogmas on one side with signal and with organizations like matrix, but there's a version of the future where you'd imagine every email has, you know, an amount attached to it, or every tweet has a stake to it. And you can filter based off of some kind of economic incentive. Do you think that future will come?

Unknown Speaker  41:29  
Definitely. And here's why, I think or last several years, um, you know, different parts of email have been factored out, right. So, you know, emails between friends have gone to Facebook, emails within companies have gone to slack on emails, kind of to strangers, I mean, there's substack, and that's kind of coming back, but there's Twitter, and so on for that. Um, so. So really, the primary use of email today is for two things. First, it's for things like receipts, password resets, you know, that type of stuff, right. And you know, what people call transactional email on and second, it's inter inter corporate email. So you are a sales rep contacting another person@a.com trying to get their attention. Now, I think that channel, because you're proposing a commercial transaction, much of the time, is something were legitimately you could put $1 sign on the edge. Okay, so because it's commercial transaction, you could put $1 sign on the edge, and it's not unreasonable, whereas with a friend, you know, paying them for their attention wouldn't seem right. You know, for a co worker, paying them for their attention may not seem right, unless a very, very large company, um, you know, where, you know, maybe there's some bonus or something you're doing. Um, but for a stranger who you're proposing a business relationship with, it's not an unreasonable thing to do. And so Moreover, if you think about email, your email inbox is a to do list is somebody else's writing. So if they want something to go to the top of your to do list, simply paying you to get to the top of the list is actually good. Now, of course, there's tweaks to this, many folks who are wealthy enough, may not actually care about it from a on from a money standpoint, but they might care about it from a signaling standpoint. And so they could just elect to donate all the money that they receive to charity, and maybe donate $50,000 a year to charity simply to sort messages by priority, so that a stranger who really needs to reach them can do so. And so that's a way that you can use it for prioritization and still do good at the same time. And that's actually what a bunch of a16z partners did with their own comm they donate to Black Girls CODE on into worthy causes. People get to top their inbox. So I do think we're going to see another version of that,

Unknown Speaker  43:43  
when deciding which apps to include on the 2025 lists. Were there. What were some criteria you were using? Was it mostly based on usage right now or kind of from first principles, etc?

Unknown Speaker  43:55  
Oh, um,

Unknown Speaker  43:57  
I think you know, so 2025, it's basically a grab bag of stuff I've been paying attention to, I was trying to be broad, and pick a bunch of different things, everything from hardware wallets, to privacy coins, defy new chains, etc, etc. I actually probably, you know, what I under covered maybe is new chains, but those are almost sometimes the most covered, you know, you can just scroll down Quinn market cap and take a look at them. Um, basically, I thought of them all as things that I could see some version of that concept working, if not the specific company, you know, like, I'm pretty sure crypto games, for example, are going to be a thing by 2025. Just people want to make money on eSports crypto lets you monetize better. You know, that seems like a like an obvious thing. So yeah, I'm bullish on most of those trends, but it was just kind of a grab bag of things I thought useful to mention. Like I could probably do another 20 slides, frankly. But just it was just kind of a selection.

Unknown Speaker  44:48  
Hey, I'm just wondering what you think crypto is going to do for like the future of work and employment because I know you mentioned tasking. Sounds kind of like you're thinking that like employment will be Sort of unbundled with like bounties and other things like that. So how do you think about that in terms of the way people are going to actually be employed by companies in the future? Yeah, that's a great question. So

Unknown Speaker  45:11  
I mean, the thing is that, um,

Unknown Speaker  45:16  
so I do think that there's going to be a huge scaling up of micro tasks for machine learning training. And the reason I say that is, we haven't yet you know, so we've been using machine learning, you know, to train things like image recognition and stuff like that. What we haven't done is asked experience, doctors, and lawyers, and I mean, there's there's folks who have trained, certainly medical imaging, machine learning, but we haven't gotten all this information out of the brains of skilled people on and eventually, you know, for example, a bunch of lawyers annotate a contract as that language is non standard, this language of standard on, you know, a number of, let's say, photographers say, oh, that photo is bad, this photo is good, there's actually a ton of stuff we still are going to be doing in terms of taking skilled information digitizing it and pulling it in. Um, and, and eventually, what that does, it allows, you know, the doctor just focus on the really hard cases, and on a diagnosis can take care of other things. Kozel has talked a lot of this. So. So I think, there there will be an avenue for that kind of, like much, much more in the way of training data. But, you know, it's, it's hard to fully, fully fully factor out a job into only micro tasks. Because there's a lot of shared context, right? It's, it's something where, you know, I think you could make it work for programming first, where you'd have a GitHub repository, you have 500, open bugs, and then you put 100 bucks on each of them, and you put $50,000 out there, and you let the sharks devour it, right? That's to say, on each of those, like, you know, get up itself actually has GitHub bounties now, or his bounty is called something else get a rewards or what have you. And the concept would be you put $50,000 out there, 100 bucks on each ticket, and just let the Puranas all the open source developers try and go and solve them. And maybe that'll work up, but you're also going to need some kind of approval process. So maybe you need another $50,000 to pay reviewers of those tasks and what have you. So I think it might work in programming First, it might work in books, I think we need some real innovations in kind of MapReduce for labor before that works. And that's non trivial. I think it's feasible, but non trivial.

Unknown Speaker  47:27  
Hi, thanks for the talk. My name is Jeff. And I guess my question is, so blockchain offers a lot of really interesting possibilities for identity. And really, in like a very different way that then real world identity works today. And I was hoping maybe you can just expand on what you think opportunities there are.

Unknown Speaker  47:48  
Um, yeah, so. So I gave a talk on this called the synonymous economy. And the concept is that in the synonymous economy, people earn under one name, they speak under another name, and their real name is yet a third name, right? So you treat your real name, quote, unquote, you know, and I put it in quotes, because, you know, real name is a state assign name. And, you know, you can't sequence somebody's genome and determine their real name, um, you can determine, you know, like, like, their blood type, and other kinds of things by, you know, from a blood count, determine their real name. So, you know, your, if you treat your real name as a social security number. And you might say, well, that's really a typical value, why would someone do that? Well, and give you an environment where hundreds of millions of people do that every day, and that's Reddit. Right? Like hundreds of millions of people are effectively synonymous all day on Reddit, and they just use whatever name suits him, they build up reputation under that name, and they can switch other names and what have you. And like the one convention all these people on Reddit go by is that daxing is bad, right? mapping the real name to physical person is bad. And one of the reasons for this is you know, kind of half joke about this but I think by like 2040, or there abouts doxxing will be like, considered like one of the worst things you can do. Because if you dock somebody, you get their address, you get their address, then you know, you can like you know who they are, you can cause harm to them and the physical world. So I think that you're going to see a huge burgeoning of pseudonymous identities not just for communication, which we've already had for the last 20 years, but for earning and so people will live their entire lives for the most part synonymously and they will say nothing controversial under the pseudonym that's earning and then they'll have older controversial stuff for their pseudonym that speaking and then they will file their forums on yet a third pseudonym, which is just you know, the the real name which is a government identity. And, you know, this is already actually happening among, you know, Gen Z of which I'm sure some of you have, either are or have, you know, siblings who are where, you know, they have Instagram and, and or Insta, right, so if Insta is there, like fake Instagram and or Insta is or real Instagram, and on the fake Instagram. They're under a fake name, but they're being their real self. You know and on the rinsed of they're under a real name, but they're being their fake self because they're posting photos in sundae basket with mom and dad or whatever and they're not letting it all hang out. So there's kind of multiple identity order as opposed to multiple identity disorders kind of already there among, you know, younger kids. Um, and and so I think that's basically where society's going and I think crypto is going to help with that because it allowed people to earn under those different identities, which really closes

Unknown Speaker  50:25  
Okay, great, but thank you very much Balaji. We appreciate it. presentation.

Transcribed by https://otter.ai
