Unknown Speaker  0:06  
So, to just go ahead and get started, I want to thank everybody for coming out today, I'm really excited for a call speaking with Dr. Balaji Srinivasan, um, to one of the reasons I've been really excited about this is I'm a medical student on the East Coast, who's actually scheduled to start clinical rotations yesterday. And those have, you know, obviously been pushed back. And so, the flow of information about this, you know, viral disease that's spreading around the world has been fascinating in that, I've learned a lot more about it from people like Balaji on Twitter, than I have from sort of the traditional sources of medical information. So to me, I think this is a really great opportunity to learn from someone who's become an expert in the topic over the past couple of months, and learn about how information spreads within the global health ecosystem and how we can help improve it. So to get started our logic behind giving a quick introduction about yourself.

Unknown Speaker  1:07  
Yeah, sure. Um, so

Unknown Speaker  1:11  
you know, my name is My name is Balaji. I am Stanford lifer. vsms, PhD, electrical engineering, Ms. Chemical

Unknown Speaker  1:19  
Engineering.

Unknown Speaker  1:20  
I did my PhD work in clinical and microbial genomics, basically, like genetic circuits of microbes, like reconstructing the the maps of how proteins and RNAs and other kinds of things all talk to each other within the cell. And that's an intersection of like stats and, you know, genomics and molecular biology and electrical engineering and so on. Um, after that, I taught CS and stats lecture at Stanford for a few years. Then rather than going and coming a professor went and started a genomics company, molecular diagnostics lab, actually, which we scaled and ended up selling for 375 million on then, you know, I got into crypto after that. I was basically early investor in Bitcoin and, you know, Ethereum z cash. That's how I got to know Bryan Armstrong, who's who's doing research. And also it was a general partner at Andreessen Horowitz, multibillion dollar venture capital firm help set up what became our bio and crypto funds. Early investor in sort of one superhuman lambda school cameo, a bunch of other companies like that. And most recently, sold the urn comm to coin base from CTO of Coinbase.

Unknown Speaker  2:34  
And then, you know,

Unknown Speaker  2:35  
going to start a new thing this year. And then in January, I kind of got involved with this carbon 19 thing back when it was still in COVID-19. And that brings us to present day.

Unknown Speaker  2:45  
Yeah, thank you for that, um, clearly, you kind of have a lot of experience that you can bring into this conversation. So I guess the first question, just to kind of bring things is, when did COVID-19 come to your attention? And how long after that, were you like, wow, this is something that's going to kind of change the whole world?

Unknown Speaker  3:04  
Well, so, you know, I had actually paid a lot of attention to the Ebola thing in 2014, which seemed, you know, is making its way into the US and there were breakdowns and process and, you know, there's a there's a woman and I believe, Texas that got infected, it was a nurse, on. And so, you know, I saw this, you know, new virus in January. But what really got my attention was, it was kind of tracking in my peripheral vision of 1000. Other things, what really got my attention was, obviously a lot of people's attention. But it was the lockdown of Wuhan and Hubei province in I believe, January 23. And that was an unfavorable signal, because that's just not the kind of thing that China had typically been known for doing since their entire, you know, sort of understanding what the population is the population mean out of political say, but the party delivers economic growth, and locked down with something that seems sacrificing economic growth. And so it had to be extremely serious for them to do something like that. And so that got me really interested in what was going on, because that was not, that was not a feasible signal, right. Unless you were making that up. That was absolutely unprecedented. So I started reading to learn Sure, and looking at stuff, and I got more and more, you know, concerned. Um, and that that's basically how it came to my attention.

Unknown Speaker  4:35  
Yeah, it makes a lot of sense. I mean, starting a hold it down. I think we've all probably seen the drone footage, you know, it's it's extremely rare to have a zombie movie. Oh, yeah. So that that makes a lot of sense to me. And I think, you know, I was very excited when you said you wanted to share this paper because I think there's a lot of insight in it. Um, I was looking at your Twitter last night. And I think over the past couple days, there's been a lot of talk about the concept of universal basic masks. So So being able to kind of prevent transmission from one person to the next by essentially stopping the respiratory system from people inhaling the virus. Um, one of the most interesting things about this, to me is how some of the centralized health organizations like the CDC, who had put out recommendations, basically saying masks don't help stop the spread of virus. Within this document, there's actually a section about transmission, where I'll quote it really quick. It says transmission of the virus happens mainly through respiratory droplets in close contact, there is a possibility of aerosol transmission in a relatively closed environment for a long exposure of time high concentration. So they're basically saying they know it occurs through respiratory droplets, and maybe occurs through aerosol transmission. The medium article you shared essentially said that a surgical mask has the ability to stop these large particles from entering a new person's respiratory system and spreading the virus. I guess, um, to me, that's really impressive, because the Chinese government has essentially put out information that's not necessarily contradictory to the CDC, but maybe has a little bit more resolution to it. I'm curious if there's anything else within this document that you were like, wow, this needs to be spread among healthcare workers in the United States in Europe, in order to kind of stay a step ahead of maybe the centralized organizations perspective on this disease?

Unknown Speaker  6:30  
Well, so I mean, there's a bunch of things. Well, first is, I mean, you know, one of the things I've talked about on Twitter is the degree of what I call official misinformation on this has been ludicrous. On because, you know, the problem is that if it's just some random person saying something on Twitter, you can, you can argue with it more easily. But, you know, just just a partial list, you know, books are saying it's just the flu, the travel bans, real reactions, and only be able to move on, we're at risk of wetting agents too. paranoid, the viruses contain tests are available, and then masks don't help. Which, you know, I tweeted this yesterday, you know, but basically, Surgeon General's warning, don't listen to the Surgeon General's warning about masks, because they do help. Everybody should wear masks. It's the simplest thing we can do upstream to, you know, limit contagion. And everyone in China was wearing masks. And yeah, even if there's an in 95 shortage, you can you can improvise a mask and wear that. So that is certainly at variance with where CDC and who are on, but I think they're going to switch Washington Post reported that they're considering changing guidelines, and it's such an obvious thing to do. And the literature supports it, it's really silly to be asked, What are the things that are there besides that, that folks don't do? I mean, there's a ton. I mean, the most important is just like, reading the guidelines. There's lots of individual clinical things, but macro things, for example, isolation of people immediately, right, um, they had separate hospitals for COVID and non COVID patients. And if you have copied you're not kept with your family, you're isolated, you know, separately. And they have a, they have, well, they have recommended treatments here on you know, they have hydroxychloroquine. And they have around four pins in here. They have convalescent plasma, they have, you know, like, like all the stuff that folks are figuring out on the chain, she's, you know, I sent this to a friend of mine, he's like, This document is from the future. You know, it's like, oh, this is after we nail the disease. And, you know, we had the guidelines written by like, you know, 2022 or 23. This is what you have something like that, besides from the traditional friends medicine part. So, um, she has a high level, you know, another big thing, that's an obvious thing, it's not a very narrow clinical guideline is separate hospitals and isolate people away from their family. So it's as important as masks.

Unknown Speaker  9:06  
Yeah, absolutely. I think the one thing I find really interesting is the phrase that you said, the Surgeon General warns not to listen to the Surgeon General, which is crazy.

Unknown Speaker  9:14  
Oh, well, so what I'm saying is, that was a play on words, you know, on a pack of cigarettes, you'll probably see this thing, Surgeon General's warning tobacco can cause this and that, right. And there's a tweet by the Surgeon General of the United States as of today, um, which said, Hey, people don't wear a mask, etc. And I retweeted that sarcastically. Surgeon General's warning don't listen to the Surgeon General's warning, anyway, whatever, good.

Unknown Speaker  9:42  
No, no, I think it's actually really apt and kind of is a useful analogy for people who are in the healthcare industry today, because so I'm a medical student. And we recently just had a presentation on COVID-19 and kind of how to protect yourself while in the hospital. And the content of that presentation came from what The CDC in some of these more, I guess, to remove centralized entity. So I'm curious, like if you are a healthcare worker today in the United States, and you're kind of getting the understanding that maybe like, you know, the Surgeon General warrants not tuition to the Surgeon General, Who should we listen to? Where should we turn to try and find information that's going to be the most effective at protecting our patients and then ourselves? Well, so here is

Unknown Speaker  10:28  
the short answer is on people who are capable of reading the scientific and biomedical literature on this. And you know, that you can limit that if you want to, to folks who have an academic background in these topics, I can understand why people would want to do that. But let me let me dwell on that point, just for a second. There's, um, there's what I call pre headline people and post headline people. Post headline people are those who pretty much won't believe something unless some official institution has already signed off. Pre headline people are folks like, like journalists, like academic researchers, or like entrepreneurs, venture capitalists who make the news. Okay. And so like, you know, a journalist doesn't need to read something in a headline. In fact, if they've read a headline, they've been scooped. So there are pre headline person, obviously, some of the researcher researcher might discover a true fact, you don't need some central authority to sign off on that to fact that the fact that they've discovered it, you know, like, they actually want to write it up and publish it first. Right? I'm seeing that an entrepreneur venture capitalist. So that's actually how the literature is written. There's somebody who is not the Surgeon General, who is actually doing the research that the Surgeon General is quoting. Right. And that's the group of pre headline people. Okay, so first, that's a group. Um, second is, that group is actually fairly large. It's essentially the group of people who have what I call them, right access to medical guidelines. Okay. Most doctors have essentially just read access to medical guidelines, there are practitioners that do not have license really to rewrite the textbook. Okay, we can talk about why that is, partly it's due to liability concerns. Partly, it's due to, you know, like medicine being turned into something where you get a paycheck at a hospital, as opposed to being kind of a independent swashbuckling kind of person. But medicine has become more centralized. And so there's a lot of, you know, kind of nodes that are downstream that are just executing on commands from, you know, these central institutions like

Unknown Speaker  12:40  
nuclear medicine, Chevron, General, the CDC,

Unknown Speaker  12:43  
those guidelines come down and then folks just kind of blindly execute on them. That's most MDS, you know, that I feel. But there is a small group, relatively small, but not, I'm not timing of, you know, I guess, I don't know the exact number, but certainly more than hundreds, probably in the range of thousands of academics who have licensed to rewrite the textbook, okay? And you know, nephrologists and diagnostics, people, and so on can rewrite those things. And those folks can go toe to toe with a bad recommendation that's gotten put out there. Okay, the good thing is, that's actually a fairly large group. And many of them are actually spitting mad right now, over, you know, some of the bad guidelines that have been put out there. And so that's where you're seeing u w, and UCSD doing things, we're really doing its own testing. ucsd is building in some ventilators and so on. So So folks are willing to get out there. And those are the folks you'd go to. And it was a long answer. But maybe those those clear,

Unknown Speaker  13:45  
it's a complicated thing, you know, trying to curate your own list of experts that you can believe in any moment, I guess. So if you're a pre headline person who has that right access to the medical guidelines, how do you share that information in real time, because things change almost on a daily basis. So if I'm a clinician, how do I read the content that those people are producing in order to stay as up to date as possible?

Unknown Speaker  14:12  
Well,

Unknown Speaker  14:14  
um, I mean, the thing is that that's art, in theory. That's why they're supposed to pay doctors big bucks. Is there supposed to be you know, or at least I think the general public's impression of doctors is as folks who make a lot a lot of independent decisions who are balancing x and y and z and w. And, you know, the reading literature and looking at your chart and, you know, stroking their chin and their house and being it if you remember that TV series, but most of them don't have that, you know, discretion really, but they're starting to now. So, my short answer is usually doctors in the field just have to go by guidelines because they have lived Ability issues if they don't go by guidelines. But now there's actually a Bloomberg article that I tweeted about intermittent medicine coming back, which is very important. And now what's happening is those doctors are talking to other doctors, and there's, they're sharing what works. And then they're going and using that, and you know that that is, like, like getting them better results in patients and waiting for a paper.

Unknown Speaker  15:23  
Yeah, that makes a lot of sense. I know, personally, just a couple of people in my area where I agree with you, I think a lot of physicians, basically, they have information dictated down to them and a top down sort of way. But with this specific scenario, as the information is coming so quickly, you almost have to kind of gather it in a more grassroots manner. Um, despite that, though, I know doctors who have tried to do simple things like essentially take the temperature of everyone who comes into their hospital, and there are administrative roadblocks that they face because of this. So it's a interesting scenario, and how you can actually implement those and an effective way to act on the information that you're talking about?

Unknown Speaker  16:06  
Well, you know, we have something unfortunate that may happen, which is the only institutions that survive, maybe those that move at the velocity of the virus. So what that means is anything that is not absolutely essential to treating patients it's essentially like, I mean, you take somebody really out of shape, and then you just make them work out incredibly hard. You know, this is taking an incredibly flabby and out of shape process that suffused with red tape at every stage that's optimized for optics rather than substance. And it's making a generate substance and we can generate startup like results, where you have to put it together with duct tape and baling wire, but you have must ship it now, yesterday, right? So speaking you that you've never had something before, in the medical system, where you, like everybody in the entire country was focused on it. Number one, okay, number two, speed was undeniably important. Number three was like lethal in number four is like international and infectious, it combines a bunch of different things at the same time, like aids may be the closest thing, but it didn't AIDS is to have the spectacular progression of this disease, in the sense that, you know, you can get infected and die within weeks. And that's actually a fairly common occurrence. I mean, it's not like, one in a million people that has that happened to them. And it can happen to relatively young people, you know, and they're in their 40s, and 50s. And some, you know, sometimes even their 20s. Um, so, so, because of that, all of those things, like the administrator thing you're talking about, if that continues, the body's literally will pile up in that hospital. And that will actually be Unfortunately, the feedback signal that people used to just shove those things out of the way, and actually do what is necessary. Hopefully,

Unknown Speaker  18:02  
that makes sense. I mean, that's definitely something you can't really ignore. Um, so bringing it back to the paper a little bit, I think this is an interesting, because I really believe that this paper has a lot of value in it. And a lot of the information, as you said, kind of feels like it's coming from the future. Um, two things specifically, which really kind of, like got my attention. One in the treatment section, there is a significant portion that's dedicated to Chinese medicine. So I'm curious what you think about that.

Unknown Speaker  18:33  
So I mean, you know, the, like the continuum between food and a traditional Chinese minister TCM, it's basically like a whole section of the, for those who haven't read the paper, there's a there's a whole with the guidelines, rather, there's a whole section devoted to essentially, like, these potions that you're supposed to drink. And, you know, they refer to it in terms, it's really interesting that that is in the official national guidelines, you know, they put it they given pride of place alongside all the allopathic stuff, you know, in one section, they're talking about the, the, like, the dimensions of the virus and how many microns it is or, you know, nanometers and, and then, you know, just in a later section they're talking about, okay, if you have like a, I mean, pronounces wrong but like a acquitting deficiency, you know, what do you do, right? Um, and, and that's, like, kind of amazing to us, right. But what I think it probably is just, you know, how effective they've been and the rest of the document, it's possible that it's purely psychosomatic. It's also possible if there's active ingredients in those potions that they're pulling together and they just don't know what they are yet, right? Because you know, like the continuum between a Food and Drug it is a continuum, for example, like lava statten is present in red yeast rice, and you know, the FDA actually made people remove the love of scattering from Red yeast rice before can be important, because otherwise people would be able to get access to law hadn't been within this food, right? So did many, many drugs that are basically food like or vice versa. And, and I wouldn't be surprised if there were some powerful drugs or combination drugs, you know, in in, in these potions that they're cooking up in the traditional Chinese medicine sucks.

Unknown Speaker  20:20  
Yeah, I actually dug into it a little bit and one of the recommendations that they have for like a mild to moderate cases of lung congestion essentially, is a tea that has a plant called ephedra in it. And one of the ingredients is ephedrine, which essentially is the same pharmaceutical mechanism as like a beta agonist that you would use to kind of open up along with during asthma. So that it just struck me that, um, as you said, the TCM recommendations were right next to kind of the more out allopathic recommendations in such an official document.

Unknown Speaker  20:53  
Mm hmm. Yeah, no, I mean, like, I think, you know, I think we're still actually very primitive in our understanding of the body. You know, like, I used to be extremely, you know, I certainly wouldn't call myself a bull on it. But I used to be extremely skeptical of stuff like acupuncture. And you know, then somebody actually put needles in my arm. And they said, Oh, this meridian is connected to this other thing. And I could, like, wiggle my hand, and this thing, the needle would actually move in your leg or whatever, right? There's actually something that was happening there. And, you know, I, can I say that it's effective, no, I don't know. Um, but I do think that it's worth investigation, I think it's worth study. Um, and I think that with, you know, diagnostic grid wearables, or something that will give you actually a stream of telemetry out of your body, I think that would actually be very useful. For actually starting to calibrate what foods are good for you which of these treatments actually work in a completely different way than normal, you just have like 10,000 streams of data coming out of you over time, which a Fitbit and we're a ring and so on roll with the one. And then from that, you could look at what your stats are looking like your,

Unknown Speaker  22:05  
your,

Unknown Speaker  22:08  
what transcription factors are binding now and what genes are getting turned on, and what does your metabolomic profile look like, and so on, as you take these treatments, as well as as you take foods, and you can start to do systems analysis to figure out what the stimulus responses. Right now, we're an incredibly primitive state in medicine, because you have no baseline, or the baseline you get is kind of a primitive lab, you know, where you're doing it, I don't know, every 12 months or something like that, that's not a true, true kind of time series, you want to kind of continuously, once we have that, I think we'll be able to benchmark, traditional Chinese medicine, acupuncture, you know, different kinds of drugs, different kinds of foods, all these things on your body, and do so in a coherent framework.

Unknown Speaker  22:50  
I think you bring up a really good point there in that sharing of data, I think is a really critical way to try and cope with the disease that moves this quickly. One of my biggest frustrations with medicine is that electronic health records are really hard to share based on essentially privacy laws. And if there was a way to somehow use big data analytics on all the health information that was being produced in a country at any one moment, I think it would be a lot more insights into what's actually working and not working, as opposed to kind of small trials that end up getting, you know, published in preprint. I'm curious if you have any thoughts there when it comes to clinical data combined?

Unknown Speaker  23:31  
Absolutely. Absolutely. I have thoughts and grief forms. Essentially, you know, Tyler Cowen actually had a good post on this where he was, you know, observing the degree of heterogeneity or apparent heterogeneity in things like case fatality rates, or, you know, severity of cases, hospitalization rates, it's like, why is Italy so bad? But, you know, why is it not seem to be going up in San Francisco or, you know, so on. And, and really, what you want is you want a table, okay? Where rows are patients and columns are features. And you've got, you know, the the cases, you know, so each case is a row, right. And you might have the first field that you like, like a, you know, binary blob permits, you extract other fields, like their height and weight and gender and age on and you know, do they smoke and so on and so forth. You have all these, all these variables going across like a just a gigantic spreadsheet with rows being patients and counting features, then you have the, you know, the time series of the progression of that patient, you know, on day one, what happened on day two, what happened? And so you have this effectively, this fusion, this gigantic table, if we had that table, okay. Um, we could we could tell things we could say instantly look at it, and we could say, Oh, well, the reason that Italy has a higher death rate is that these patients have, you know, they're older on average, or on They all have, for example, this genetic variant, or, you know, if they, you know, they all came in at this xy location. So, if we had that gigantic table, there's a ton that we could say, and we probably would understand the heterogeneity more, we don't. And the reason we don't is we don't have an easy way for folks in this pandemic, to just click a button and upload, you know, and download keys keys data. Now, what I'm talking about, by the way, is incredibly complicated. Okay, all the EHR people or, you know, like, not the violence banks, but health informatics, people will remain the same route, which countries have different systems and their coding is different. And you know, what one, one area codes is severe, the other guys may not code a severe, they might coded as mild. And so, for example, like diagnosis of diabetes, it's, it's not always a 01, it can be continuous in different thresholds you can often set. So that's all true. But unless we resolve that, we're giving up tons of data, and you're kind of reasoning through a pinhole camera, right, because you're seeing something in the literature, but that what's in the literature is that aggregation across, you know, some columns have this theoretical full data set right near the full data set, you can do analyses that none of the individual authors thought about, I've seen the power of this in genomics, where it actually is relatively easy to take studies that have been done by different groups and stack them together. Okay, and the reason you can stack them is the human genome is roughly constant. So the same variance here and each one. So you can stack a bunch of different cities together, and and therefore get signal. And so we want to get are basically stackable data sets, so that it leaves data, Spain's EDA pulls China's data Plus, the US has data and so on, there's, there's a strong incentive for people to share. Because if you share, you get more signal. So you give to get and see what the patient, you know, a patient who shares and does give up, basically, maybe some privacy, I'll come back to that point, let's just say to give some privacy by sharing in return is able to benefit from the Cisco aggregation, where they can see how typical or atypical cases they'll put others. And make sure the privacy component, I think there's a ton of work that can be done here in terms of privacy preserving aggregations, there's Google private tree and compute that recently came out their secure multi party computation, plus stuff you can do where you don't necessarily need to have your medical history just out there, you know, on on, you know, not on the internet. But for 10,000. Doctors are there to look at, there's ways you can do privacy preserving stuff, potentially. But um, I think this is a useful mental construct to have, which is the big table with rows, patients and columns features. And for that, we can figure out a ton.

Unknown Speaker  27:48  
Yeah, I do hope that one of the silver linings of this whole scenario is that there's a pressure to accelerate that development within the healthcare system, bringing it back to the paper. And this is this is more guidelines and like a traditional scientific paper. But one thing which I was curious about is that the recommendations are really good. But there are no citations pointing to studies to basically allow, like a critical eye to maybe look at things a little deeper. does China have a big table like that? And is that what they're using to essentially make these recommendations? I'm curious if you have any insight into where they come from?

Unknown Speaker  28:23  
Yeah, so So the thing is, you know, I, I tweet about this a bit, but basically, you know, this is, I think, where so called evidence based medicine starts to say, fall down. That's not exactly right. But here's the thing. So evidence, defense, and people will give you different definitions, but evidence based medicine, this is essentially, a it's a here that, you know, every treatment decision must be made on the basis of evidence and the best forms of evidence are peer reviewed studies and meta analyses and randomized control trials and, and so on. And you know, otherwise idea is that you're basing medical judgments, not on rigorous evidence, but on hearsay. And it's kind of like, it's sort of set up in such a way to be a dis, like, Oh, I practice evidence based medicine. What'd you do? Oh, you just like heard a rumor from some doctor and you're prescribing it that way. That's pretty fly by night, man. You know, and that's, that's kind of how it's constructed. Right? Like, evidence based medicine is supposed to be the rationale for medicine and everything else is just, you know, like people playing with sticks or whatever, right? We're just doing it by the seat of their pants.

Transcribed by https://otter.ai
