Unknown Speaker  0:15  
Hey folks, this is Anatoly and you're listening to the sauna podcast and today have an awesome guest. It's Balaji Srinivasan, who is a former CTO of Coinbase GPA a16z. One of the first folks that ever heard of working on crypto like one of the most coolest people to follow on Twitter. So really excited to have you here.

Unknown Speaker  0:36  
Well, thank you for that kind intro Anatoly and glad to be here.

Unknown Speaker  0:40  
Awesome. I mean,

Unknown Speaker  0:42  
I think like, I kind of have like a bajillion questions to ask you around crypto, but also kind of around the general world. And I guess I'll just dive right into it. Like, you're one of the first folks to call out the pandemic, like as a as it was, and like, my, like, I like kind of tend tended to, like, downplay the risks, even though my like, former, my parents are from the former USSR, like, this seems a little weird.

Unknown Speaker  1:16  
Like, like this, like they've seen this before, right? Like, or something

Unknown Speaker  1:19  
like the Chernobyl type stuff? or what have you like,

Unknown Speaker  1:21  
yeah,

Unknown Speaker  1:22  
they're paranoid in a certain way, due to just seeing, you know, bad stuff happen, basically.

Unknown Speaker  1:28  
Yeah. Like, what was your instincts on this? Why was this like scarier than like, swine flu? Or like, SARS, or like, the kind of the previous ones?

Unknown Speaker  1:38  
Well, you know, the thing about it was just that, um, it was a serious threat that people weren't taking, seriously.

Unknown Speaker  1:48  
And how do you, how do you like,

Unknown Speaker  1:50  
it's actually a lot like angel investing in the sense that you're constantly scanning the horizon, there's 1000 things trying to get your attention, and you have to sort of ruthlessly prioritize to figure out which things are important, right. And which macroeconomic drivers are real verses which are, can be ignored, you know, versus which are real, but it will happen in the long term, and so on. And the thing about it was, you know, when I saw this as like, you know, you know, it's a virus and like a true, like, a truly virulent kind of thing like this. I mean, basically, the moment that was really obvious for me was when China shut down Wu Han, and, you know, they put Wuhan into lockdown. And China's a serious country, you know, there's a lot of things, you know, that one can and should disagree with that they do. But they're not used to committing economic suicide for no reason. And for them to do that at such massive cost. And certainly, they're aware of how much it would have freaked out everybody else in the rest of country, you know, it really did seem like, you know, a virus out of a movie. Now, the issue was that, you know, in the West, it wasn't being taken seriously until really, it hit Italy. And then it caused a lot of death over there. And one of the problems is that, you know, now with some degree of hindsight, like nine months later, you know, you can see like, we're fortunate. Well, yeah, I got to say, We're fortunate, we're fortunate, this isn't the Black Death, right? It isn't the virus from contagion. But in the early days, it looked like it could have been, and, you know, we're still trying to figure out exactly why that is, you know, why is it that Wu Han and New York and, you know, place in Italy had such a surge of debts? You know, why? Why was it being reported that, you know, for example, hospital workers were getting sick, and so on. That's the kind of thing that, you know, cannot things down versus today, the conventional wisdom is more like, Oh, this mainly, you know, kills older people. It does cause long term issues and lots of other people, but it doesn't kill them. That's not to downplay it. By the way. There's folks, you know, on Twitter, you know, people who I know, who have had COVID and who feel like their life is just worse as a consequence, you know, there's this whole kind of group of people with low COVID. Right. So, you know, where it's sort of settled out is something where, I mean, there's no question the pandemic will be written about in history books is something that changed the world on, it's about to close in on a million deaths worldwide. But it doesn't look like it's going to hit the Spanish Flu numbers of 100 million unless it mutates and something changes. It might go on for quite some time, though. So you know, I mean, like, guessing is a mug's game. But, you know, if folks don't vaccinate or this becomes endemic, you could imagine this going on for years and claiming several million lives. I think an upper bound would be 10 but it'll be somewhere between one to 10 as as non aggressive, a projectionist that sounds. Still anything on that level. Yes, it's not it's not 100 million. But there are huge precautions also taken by you know, the whole world to to stay This thing, and it's it's interesting, you know, like, it clearly pushed us from the 20th century into the 21st in the sense because everything physical got deprecated, we moved to kind of this remote first digital environment. And that those are just my thoughts like nine months in, I'm, you know, happy to delve into any of that.

Unknown Speaker  5:21  
Yeah, I mean, the this, I mean, there's so much to unpack there, like, um, and like, I've, I've kind of like, as I've been working on crypto, I think my brain has been infected by this idea that crypto isn't so much about money as it is about, like, the governance side of it, like organization of people around a decision. So like, that's right. It's bizarre to me that, like this, this like thing of, we couldn't figure out what the truth was in China on how to value it and how to how to actually price it and take take action on it. Until like, it was kind of smack right in the face. And like that, to me seemed like a total lack of like, human organization, like our, our, like non digital mechanisms for measuring this stuff totally failed, in a lot of ways. Like I, I kind of saw like the, the Twitter side of it like that information to be like almost more reliable than, like, the previous 20th century mediums which which was like, as you pointed out, like a really clear, like, kind of break from the old world. And now I guess the start of a new century. Yep, I think that's absolutely right. Go ahead. Do you? Like do you see the, like this idea, like, I saw a tweet from you that this is going to be like a century of the internet so much more than like, a china century or like Asia century or something like that? Do you? Do you think that, like, is that narrative? Because of COVID? Like, was that like, kind of breaking change? Like kind of really solidified the

Unknown Speaker  7:00  
question? I mean, I think that, um,

Unknown Speaker  7:04  
I think that would have been true even without COVID mainly, because, I mean, in a sense, this is obvious, but I'll you know, I'll say it anyway, which is, um, you know, Chinese people aren't American and American people aren't Chinese in the sense of citizens. Obviously, there's folks who can immigrate from country to country. But like Chinese nationals aren't American nationals, American nationals aren't Chinese nationals, but both of them are internet users. And more deeply, people don't understand the full impact of this. I talked about this a few years ago, but both them are also crypto users. And so what we find is, even as all of this cross border trade is being impeded, due to you know, the country's fighting, you know, with the China has done this, obviously, for a while, and now the US is retaliating with this tic toc thing and what have you. Um, while that is happening, you know, there's also the people on the ground, you know, even if you're there wasn't a trade war, an American citizen might not trust the Chinese legal system. And a Chinese citizen certainly might not now trust the American legal system, but both them can trust a blockchain. And that's why the cross border trade Well, you know, place where you're on the same cap table, so to speak, as a Chinese person is, um, is Bitcoin It's aetherium. It's olana. It's, you know, it's, it's these new chains. It's the smart contracts, because mathematics is a universal language. And you can just diligence math in a way that you can't really just diligence, the law, because the issue with the law is, if you're a Chinese citizen, and American judge may just interpret the law against you in a negative way. And vice versa. There's, there's a bias built into what is, you know, the legal text is, whereas with a smart contract, computer is executing it. And that's not biased towards either the Americans or the Chinese every single opcode. You know, you can print it out, it's, it's basically the next step after open source. It's not simply open source, open state, and open execution, you have a glass box, a transparent algorithm, where if you distrust it, you can literally replay every single aspect of it. And you get out the education of that blockchain in a way that you can't replay the mental state of a judge or prove that, you know, they were biased against you because you were American, or you were Chinese. So that's why I think in the medium to long term, global rule of law is going to be based on computation, which everybody can diligence. And that's where, you know, people won't train. I mean, not that they won't, they won't just train to be a lawyer in this or that country. They'll be a lawyer in this or that country. And they'll need to learn international smart contract law, which is what the rules based international order will become.

Unknown Speaker  9:52  
Do you think that that would be actually a legal basis or just really like a commercial one, that people will kind of

Unknown Speaker  9:59  
Yeah, I think the best,

Unknown Speaker  10:01  
like kind of prerequisite or practice router precedent for this is the Law of the Sea. Are you familiar with that? None? Not like it's not enough stuff to have an opinion. Okay, if you google the Law of the Sea, right? Um, crypto can be thought of as the new international waters. It's like an intrinsically demilitarized zone. The Law of the Sea governs what happens when like two boats crash into each other, for example, you know, when you have it, because basically, for centuries, nations have had to deal with what happens in international waters, who has jurisdiction, etc. Right? Um, and, you know, because it is a Germany or is it like, you know, France if a German and friendship collide into each other or have some issue in the Pacific Ocean, right? Um, and Law of the Sea goes through lots and lots of these eventualities. And where you can think of, you know, a blockchain is being like an ocean that connects national internets, right. And so you've got different waterways, you know, the Pacific, the Atlantic, etc, that connect different kinds of national entities. And just, you know, this is what decentralization actually will mean, over time, I think we need to get better and better at decentralizing things, because the tricky part is it starts centralized and then gets decentralized. But, you know, maybe maybe what happens is best practices evolve, where everything really is done synonymously, everything is default pseudonymous, you don't actually expose your real name, unless it's like a, you know, official government document where you need to put it in. Um, and if that's the case, over time, we come up with better and better best practices for decentralization, you really do have these blockchain serving as sort of the seas, the oceans in between these national internets. It's a national interest, by the way, and what I mean is a balkanized internet, similar to the Chinese internet, with some kind of Great Firewall, you know, outside and some sort of speech or thought control stuff inside, unfortunately, many countries are going in this direction. Um, but I do think that the internet will bridge them regardless of that in the medium to long term.

Unknown Speaker  12:08  
I suppose that like, even United States with kind of what happened with Tick Tock is kind of firewalling itself. Right? Because for a huge a huge part of it was getting the data into like, you know, Oracle servers, apparently?

Unknown Speaker  12:24  
Well, I mean, we're gonna see what actually happens with all this stuff. It's so silly. Um, you know, but but go ahead. Yeah, you're gonna say?

Unknown Speaker  12:33  
So, I mean, like, I think the like, it's hard to, to find a way to imagine like a world where there's a lawyer that interprets a contract. Like, to me, it seems like those agreements are going to be mostly commercial, but that myself and somebody else that's around on the other side of the world, we can kind of come to agreement on a piece of code, and use that protocol in this like, kind of, like, low risk way, right?

Unknown Speaker  12:58  
I mean, like, ideally, what you'd have is like a webpage or something that shows who's signing, right, it shows the jurisdiction at the top right, like, you know, it's a salon chain, it's aetherium chain, or it's like something like claros, right? You know, it shows a bunch of scenario analyses, which are contemplated outcomes. If x then y happens if z then w happens, etc, etc. And then both parties have fixed a digital signature there. And then it has been attested and it's executed on dispassionately by this third party, arbiter of the chain. And that's amazing. Like, in a sense, it is just automating and digitizing things that already happened. But it's absolutely insane how impactful that is that you can do that programmatically, that you know, bias creeps out of it, you don't have a judge who's biased for against you. On that is going to be the, you know, Yale Law gets replaced by smart contracts over time. Just like the Kennedy School of Government, the new head of state is a head of network. And actually just like Columbia School of Journalism, because you know, media also becomes crypto since, you know, you have my concept if you look at my pin tweet on the ledger of record. So crypto isn't just the new wall street or the new Silicon Valley. It's also the new Columbia School of Journalism Kennedy School of Government and Yale Law.

Unknown Speaker  14:18  
Do you like my I don't know Do you follow like, defy like the actual like dejenne deal? farming crypto Twitter defy like to me like what's been like kind of crazy is that, like, even though a bunch of people around the world, we don't speak a common language, we can easily get all behind a meme because that's very easy to translate and almost kind of like simple like tokenize compression of an idea. And in itself, I think that that is kind of like without having any value behind it right? Not like even store value or anything like that. I think there's something and then like, I think revolutionary there In the same sense that 60 degrees was in the early days of the internet, like, can you? Can you imagine, like 100 million people all owning the same governance token? Even. I mean,

Unknown Speaker  15:12  
that's, that's basically, you know, it's a quantifiable vote in many different senses of the term. You know, one of the things we're going to run into Now I know that there's so basically there's like v1, v2, v3, right? v1 is, oh, we should vote online. v2 is a bunch of, you know, quote, experts say, Oh, no, you can't vote online, we just use paper, and so on. And that's what like, you know, Schneier, and Matt Blaze, and so on, say, and I understand why they say that stuff, v3 is we're actually doing it. And that's crypto, you know, crypto has high stakes digital votes happening all the time, not without its error modes, right? not without its problems, but it's happening. And as crypto gets better and better and establishes a better track record, you start having 1,000,000,010 billion 100 billion whatever on the line with these votes, which is, which is basically happening there. Proof of stake votes, there, there's all kinds of mess because humans are messy, every weird edge case, we're actually seeing and seeing how it works out. But what we're going to get at the end of it is we're going to get essentially an online voting system. And you know, it's funny, because it's not just, you know, voting with your ballots, voting with your wallet and voting with your feet. And several things are all kind of encoded in this. But one thing that's really interesting and funny about this, is that, you know, there's this sort of Stalin apocryphal Stalin quote, which is, He who votes decides nothing, but he who counts the votes, decides everything. And, you know, now, I think we have to have a third addendum to that, which is, but he who can't count the votes can't decide anything. Right? Meaning, essentially, you know, where America may end up in a few months is a situation where it literally can't properly count the votes. or more precisely, it can't come to a vote count that everybody believes is real and fair, and not fraudulent, or whatever. Right? Both sides, if you saw my thing, do you see my thing on the red Mirage on this? Yeah, yeah. And not not to be political, or given that everything is politics right now. But but just is almost a recipe for everybody thinking that, you know, this, this was like a stolen election or whatever, it seems like both sides are set up for this kind of a slow motion train crash in its own way, like COVID, kind of predictable that it's going to happen. And so you know, in that sort of environment after this, when people are fighting about this, for whatever months, maybe who knows years on, you're going to see that actually, we do need some kind of digital system, because it is simply not possible for the average person to come to confidence in the system, if they can't audit the system, you know, and that's where crypto comes in. Because you could hold a private key, you could vote, and you yourself could see that your vote was counted, literally, there could be a table that shows, you know, 300 million people in the US. And you know, they're all but they're all a, they've got their their public key identifier so that their privacy is protected. And you can search by, you know, California or Texas or Illinois or whatever, and then go down to your county and then go down to your city. And you can paste in your, you know, private key into your local wallet or whatever and see that your vote was actually counted there. Right. And I think that's so awesome. And you and I understand what that means. But most people don't understand what that means yet, right? We're still 10 or even maybe 20 years away from people really getting that. So it's not gonna be ready in time. But that's clearly I think, the medium to long term solution,

Unknown Speaker  18:37  
in a way, I think, honestly disagree with you there. I think that like so I think that the Federated system in the United States, when especially when it was tested in like the 2000 election with bush actually proved itself to be robust, in that it can see you laugh, right. But I think when we do see failures, they're localized within a single state. And then the only belief that we need to establish isn't like the global voter United States of all 300 million people, but just within like that one failed thing that's under contention. So I think like, if the selection is close, right, we will, everyone is going to focus on counting ballots that's in New Hampshire or Pennsylvania, or whatever, right? And that's a solvable, that's doable, right? Because it's no longer like a problem of counting the entire, like recounting all of us. It's only like a single event. And to be honest, I think it actually makes it more robust. Because, like in a, you know, if you think of it as like me, a blockchain operating systems designer that's always thinking about attack vectors. I actually don't want to systemic attacks. I want to localize the attacks. I won't like Oh, yeah.

Unknown Speaker  19:54  
So your argument is rational. I just didn't think it is applicable in 2020 as opposed to 2000 I mean, obviously, you know, a lot has changed in 20 years on and one of the things that changed is that there's far less trust in the US. And so, um, you know, people can't can't even agree on how many Coronavirus debts have happened or, you know, that type of stuff. All of that is symptomatic of not having shared truth. So they at the time, they kind of outsource the count to the Supreme Court, or what have you are like, Well, let me actually separate out two things. First, is the narrow technical point you're making, which is, if you have a dispute over account, it's better that it's in one county of one state, rather than a national kind of issue. Number one, I agree with that, except we're going to see a surge in mail in ballots across the entire country. And there's enough swing areas that I think you're gonna see contested votes in quite a lot of places. So that's number one. It's not just going to be like Florida, on. The second thing is that with the 2000 election, people thought was going to be close. But they they weren't like preparing for a fight. Like the current one is, the stakes were in a sense, lower, because it was coming out of a time of peace and prosperity and so on. Here, you have folks who are basically gearing up for a fight. And, you know, they basically spent the last four years D legitimizing each other. So the commons are a tragedy, you know, and the so first year, I think you're going to get a more globally contested result than maybe we might think we'll see. Okay, um, and in second is there's not enough trust to basically, if you've got, you know, ballot contest ation happening in like, seven states or something like that, and 30 counties, and who knows, right? It's just going to go on forever. And, and here's what

Unknown Speaker  21:50  
I think like, I think like, because it is like, a state that's being like in dispute. And states themselves have fairly robust, kind of, we don't, we don't see like a 5050 split and almost any state legislature or governance, right, that they're all kind of like basically like, either all rebug or at all, yeah, blue or red. So I think what we're gonna see is, is kind of like, you know, almost like a parliamentary election, right, like, whatever the state is, that's the way it's gonna go. And that's not too bad. Right. That's like,

Unknown Speaker  22:26  
I don't think I don't think that's what's going to happen. I think basically, you're going to find there's actually a fair number of purple states, you know, where there's like a governor and SES legislators split. I think we're gonna all hear about all kinds of arcane. Here's my prediction. Okay. Go my Coronavirus prediction. And this is not, I don't even think this is controversial what I'm about to say, I think it's sort of, you know, visible, like a few months out. So, I think this election ends up potential, and I'm not saying this in a positive way, I'm just saying is an observed way. Okay. Um, I think this election ends up D legitimizing American democracy in the eyes of at least 50% of the country in much of the world. Because there's many outcomes, and many of them are bad. If, for example, you know, defense one for publish this article talking about using military force, you know, in the event that the election is in conceited, or what have you, even if legitimate, the use of military force, and the cameras associated that make the US look like a band, Banana Republic, right, the fighting over it, you know, it's it's kind of hard to argue that, oh, it's a democracy after you have troops marching, and so on, even if, even if it's like, if you can make the argument that was the right thing to do, it's actually similar to Venezuela, where, you know, oh, this side has a military on and the other guys are really arguing that it's not legitimate and so on, when you have something like that, um, even if you can argue that it was the right thing to do, simply the presence of the fighting and the presence of an extremely embittered 40 or 50, or whatever percent of the country is enough to make the country not seem like a functioning Republic anymore. Right. And, and I think that whatever the outcome is, the fighting over it will make the US look really bad on the world stage. I don't think people are really thinking about that. On that's a, b is I think that fighting may go on for a long time on it's possible, it just comes to a crashing halt on January 21. It's possible that you have I mean, if you saw like the the concept of blue states, we're talking about succeeding in the event, the election goes in a wrong wrong direction. Um, you see the interstate compacts from earlier this year,

Unknown Speaker  24:34  
about like kind of preventing people from crossing the borders. Yeah, exactly.

Unknown Speaker  24:40  
So the interstate compacts

Unknown Speaker  24:42  
are like almost like a sci fi like headline, you know, California, Washington, Oregon, Nevada form interstate compact. I mean, it's allowed in the Constitution, but it's also you know, basically a devolution of power. Where you know, it's a massive is a massive thing. So actually relatively underrated. In terms of, you know, how significant that was, where you're basically forming sub national entities that are taking on functions, I mean, in a sense, it's a continuation of sanctuary cities and marijuana laws and so on where states are increasingly, you know, going their own way against the, you know, the federal government. But it's an acceleration of that. And it's a dress rehearsal for, um, you know, uh, gosh, what's his name there? pedesta. In the simulation, he talked about how blue states would potentially succeed, if, you know, the, the vote wasn't, you know, counted appropriately in their estimation. And so I think that this is basically, I think, 2020 will be looked at as potentially the end of the certainly the American Empire on Sep 1945 to 2020. You know, that's, like 75 years is basically like, almost exactly like one human human lifespan. This is like,

Unknown Speaker  25:57  
basically, man, I really, like blessed to live through the fall of the Soviet Union.

Unknown Speaker  26:07  
That's right. No, it's funny. It's one of these things where, you know, 30 years, is, it doesn't seem like a long time in the history books like 18. You know, if I said 1790, and 1820, you think of them as being relatively close together, right? But 1990 and 2020 are very, very, very different, right? That's a lot of change that's happening there. yet, at the same time, from like, the big macro vantage point of history from like, 1000 years, in the future, it'll be like, Oh, the USSR collapsed, and then the USA collapse, like 30 years later,

Unknown Speaker  26:38  
you know, like, that's,

Unknown Speaker  26:41  
that's like how, like a historian from the year 3000 might write about it. That's a DPT 12 is gonna write about something like that. That's right. And, you know, here's the thing is, like, you know, I'm not I'm trying to be flip about it, that's going to be crazy. If that happens, you know, there's, there's, there's just a lot of uncertainty around it. But I think the one certainty is that, um, like, the US government just loses even more reputation points. And it did, you know, in the 2008 crisis, and it did with the Iraq war, and so on, and so forth. But it's like, you know, with with COVID-19, for example, if you read foreign policy, calm, and other things like that, like the US is no longer the leader of the free world, you know, other countries, you know, this is an international disaster, like, normally what happens is when there's like some hurricane or flood, and in Haiti or West Africa, or something like that, you have US Marines who are landing and they're providing order, and you've seen the images on TV of that, right, the US is the backstop that lots of countries can look to, and so on, right. And there's, you know, I'm going to take that's gone completely to zero, the US is still thought of as an important player, but it is simply not, it was just absence on COVID-19, completely absent, in maybe the most important global crisis since World War Two or something, right, just in terms of the number of countries pulled into 911, for example, wasn't as important in China as COVID is right COVID it's like globally important to behavior change everywhere. It's like World War Two in the sense of totalizing, you know, even Vietnam, for example, you know, lots of these things any individual country could ignore, this is like an ongoing thing, that changing behavior all around the world. And so, um, the US being sort of absent here, where it's unable to lead within its own country and infighting, let alone be able to provide real leadership, it means many people in the US have become inward looking, they're no longer internationalist in their orientation. On this a huge shift from 2015, when there was a sort of rules based international order, and the US was the backstop of that. And that is I think the vacuum that crypto is going to fill based crypto is a better rules based international order, because it's based on, you know, computer science on and as opposed to fallible judges. Actually, did you see my thing? This is interesting. I thought it was interesting, at least my tweet on math versus science. Okay, so the Normally, you know, for example, the acronym stem, right, science and math are grouped together and what people don't usually think of them as being quote in opposition, right? And you put math and science on one side versus religion on the other side, here's where I've recently realized math over science. Okay, and let me explain what I specifically mean by that. Today, there's many things where science is essentially man in the middle. Okay, that is to say, there's science, and then there are scientists, and then there are the popular summaries of what scientists say. And that mitm attack is actually quite significant as a distortion even if it's not thought of as such, right? Um, you know, one example classics I mean, very important example is the whole who and Surgeon General saying masks don't work and then completely flipping you know, three months later. Now, the level of confidence with which that statement was issued. you'd write not just, you know, confidence. It was a hectoring, Condon, condescension. And then a complete reversal of it. If this is something that everybody understands that the people who said that they knew what they were talking about did not. Because to contradict yourself that dramatically, within three months, it's not like there was some major new research study or something like that. It just changed the null hypothesis.

Unknown Speaker  30:23  
You know, that's literally what it was right? Now.

Unknown Speaker  30:26  
Look, I'm pro mask, in the sense of, you know, it's probably better to take those kinds of precautions given that, you know, we have droplet physics, right, not everything this is the thing is like a, there's a certain kind of biomedical person who's like, no, everything has to be a double blind period, like, look that that actually throws away a lot of information. Physics exists. You know, like, we know, the germ theory of disease, we know Cox postulates or

Unknown Speaker  30:49  
whatever, like,

Unknown Speaker  30:50  
there's a degree of logic that you can use and some of these things that gives you a different, you know, base case,

Unknown Speaker  30:56  
okay, or should double blind study, right?

Unknown Speaker  30:58  
But actually, they actually, once you summarize that, that's a really good, it's really good example,

Unknown Speaker  31:02  
I only like it, I probably gonna butcher it. But basically like the, you can look at the like, if you did a double blind study with their parachutes save lives or not, right? Yes, passively. You're throwing, like, I forget, like the exact phrasing of it. But the summary of it is that you're throwing away the knowledge that obviously the person is going to die, and you're probably going to kill somebody when you do the study. Yep. Yep. So it is, like, kind of, uh, the dumbest thing about that statement, when they said that masks don't say lives is that like, that, like, I'm an optimist. I honestly, like disagree with you, I think we're gonna see like an election, people are gonna fight and everything's gonna be fine. But like,

Unknown Speaker  31:46  
I like you on that I will be. It'll be as

Unknown Speaker  31:49  
fine as like Florida in 2000. It'll suck for, for, like, part of the country. But I think that, that, why are you so mistaken? I think the world is getting better. Like, my personal view is that like, the reason why people are so upset is because they just see that the information is propagating faster, they see more of it, that they're that they're just not used to in their lifespan. So we're getting we're just getting more data. Right? Like I'm

Unknown Speaker  32:19  
Yes, it should, um, you know, like Moses nyeem, you know, the end of power, or Martin, Gary? Right. Both those books, I think, are quite good. And essentially, they make the they they have a different premise, which is that we're seeing the unbundling of states because legacy authorities can't just survive transparency, everybody, you know, find the man I will find your crime the barrier thing, right? Put a microscope to any person, Snowden had the same concept, you could take an innocent life. And if you surveil them enough, you can make it look like they're like evil people or whatever, right? Um, and that was also the Soviet secret police thing. And so the same actually applies to legitimate institutions, not just legitimate people, given enough information on any institution, you can make them look evil. And that's what we've got. And I think that what that means is the deprecate basically, I don't think any institution that predated the internet will easily survive the internet. And that includes nation states includes colleges, that includes retail stores, that includes like legal systems, medical systems, all of that stuff is about to get just like ripped apart and pulled together into internet, native things, which have legitimacy, instability that comes from opt in,

Unknown Speaker  33:32  
as opposed to coercion. I can I can drill into that. Go ahead.

Unknown Speaker  33:35  
I think in the United States, specifically, what we will likely see is maybe like a reduction of power the presidency. And this might not even be through any legal course, just through a natural kind of like, the way that like the state operates. Right? Like,

Unknown Speaker  33:54  
Greg, Greg, Richie is is basically the, the model for where I think things go, you know, Greg, Richie is, I don't know, it's kind of a joke and Snow Crash 1992 By the way, that book is absolutely it's insane how well that holds up. It's asked for him to have seen and projected out a future like that in 1992. I mean, 2020 is really like the Snow Crash here. Lots of snow crashing, things are happening. We're finally getting the metaverse with Oculus and, you know, with VR and whatnot. But even just the thing that said he was like, try to get this quote from Snow Crash.

Unknown Speaker  34:35  
I think the only thing it's missing is a it's like, I feel like the the dopamine newsfeed is the entertainment from Infinite Jest. And like the virus and Snow Crash was just a little bit too sci fi. If they just if that was like the big like the thing. It would have almost been like a perfect explanation of what's happening in the world. Right.

Unknown Speaker  34:58  
I want to give this this This quote here, which is unbelievable from 1982. When it gets down to talking trade balances here, once we brain drain all our technology into other countries once things have evened out, they're making cars in Bolivia and microphones into Zika sand and selling them here. Once our edge national natural resources have been made irrelevant by China, Hong Kong ships, and original second ship North Dakota all the way to New Zealand for nickel, once the invisible hand is taken away all those historical inequities and smear them out into broad global layer of Pakistani brickmaker would consider to be prosperity. You know what, there's only four things we do better than anyone else. Music movies, microcode, meaning software, and high speed pizza delivery. And I was like, I'd be Jesus Christ that holds up so well. 30 years later, right? Um, I mean, just to just to go through that right? brain drain our technology into other countries. So the thing about that is it didn't, it didn't exactly happen the same way. And you'll see him saying it. But I mean, it's 30 years ago, so you have to give a lot of partial credit. What happened I think, is in the year 2000. So in the year 1980 1990, even the year 2000, physically being in America was a big asset, right. But 2020, by 2010, a big chunk of America had been uploaded. And by 2020, I would argue 2020 is the year that digital America is significantly more valuable than physical America. And by digital America, I mean cloud services. I mean, the internet, I mean, you know, the internet is really a sequel to America, in the sense that, you know, the the British colonies in the New World, were a piece of the UK till they weren't, right. So digital America is still a piece of America, but it is it is becoming its own thing. And 2020 is actually the point at which you can make the you know, for road table, right with two columns. Are you physically in America? Are you do you have accounts in digital America, right? And so up until 2019, you know, perhaps the world preference was for both right? To be physically in America, and to have on digital America, meaning Google and Gmail and Facebook and whatever, right? And then you've got three more options, right? option number two is you're physically in America, but you don't have the internet on option three is you're not in America, but you do have the intranet. And option four is you have neither right? You know, maybe you're in like some prison in China or something. Okay. So, so the thing is that, you know, obviously, option four is the worst. But that will have some somewhat arguable decades, digital detox or whatever, you know, I live in the middle of nowhere, fine. Okay. But the really interesting thing to me is, I think I'm most of the value proposition of being in America has now been uploaded to the cloud. And it's available anywhere internationally. And because you've got Starbucks everywhere, you've got flush toilets everywhere. This was not true. 40 years ago, right? There's not even true 20 years ago. And, you know, basically like

Unknown Speaker  38:05  
credit, like just being able to buy a house like that. I don't know if that's true. And like, like, so I mean, this this is Yeah, me looking at like my parents. They like they were middle class in the USSR, right? They came over here, and kind of started at the bottom and kind of got to the middle class, and were able to buy a house right, with a mortgage. Like that was not possible in the Soviet Union. I don't think it's possible now. And like, Russia, are you?

Unknown Speaker  38:34  
Sure. So I agree with you that for certain kinds of things, like, I want to buy a house, right? If that's a very big deal to you, then physical America has value. But if you are a city dweller, right, um, if you and by the way, I do think actually that going out into the middle of nowhere is going to be a bigger and bigger thing. Right. But for a certain class. I mean, sorry, it's there's two different trends here. Let me talk about them because they're different. The first trend is that a big chunk of America's value proposition is now in the cloud, a big chunk of it, we can argue about what percentage, right, I think you make an excellent point on that if you prize huge wide open spaces and owning real estate, then America still has a competitive value proposition. Right. I think you can do that in New Zealand. I think you can do that in Canada. I think I think you can do that in Russia. I don't know, actually, if you can own large amounts of real estate in Russia is huge.

Unknown Speaker  39:34  
Its property rights. Like it's more so much that like mortgages and interest rates, But to your point about crypto, I think it's slowly eating away at and moving into the cloud. Right, right.

Unknown Speaker  39:45  
So I think what happens and you know, I actually don't know enough about, you know, like Finland, Sweden, etc. Those seem to be like fairly large countries where you could have like a big house. I mean, it's cold, right? So I actually I don't know enough about The International real estate market to say for sure on that, I understand your point, though, in terms of having title to a big chunk of land and having that reliably, you know, approved. The issue, though is, like, you know, the US is just trending in the wrong direction for a lot of those things, you know, like rule, it's becoming more arbitrary. It's becoming worse as a country in terms of these these kinds of dynamics. And

Unknown Speaker  40:28  
there's lots of different reasons for that. But

Unknown Speaker  40:31  
I think that what you were, you're correct about absolutely correct about is, if you prize a large piece of real estate, then yes, the US has advantages, but we can generalize this, which is that nation states become commodity providers of land natural resources and rule sets, right. So if you prize large amounts of, you know, on a bauxite or something like that, you know, there's a, there's a place that that has lots of that, right, or diamonds or something, right. And then that is actually where the, where the countries come in, is they become useful. As a as providers of those rule sets and Land and Natural Resources, but they don't have a lock on is the media, the the technology, and everything else, that's digital, which is an enormous part of human society. Now,

Unknown Speaker  41:21  
go ahead. That that is like, I mean, the fact that the United States has been uploaded to the cloud, like solves I think a lot of I mean, it's like, it's, I almost don't think it's like a US is shrinking, I think us is almost like, basically, the Empire is growing. So I certainly this

Unknown Speaker  41:42  
is a, this is a thing, where there's a tension of like a few different things. And let me see if I can resolve them. Like one of my one liners is the internet is to the USA, with the Americas were to the UK, right? Like, for example, in the Americas, there was a scramble for America, right? Spain, you know, did a lot in South America, you know, France, England, you know, actually, you know, Germany ever really gone to the colonial colonialism game, but Spain, France, England, the Netherlands, and so on. They're all they're all big in terms of making colonies and so on in this new world, right. And the internet is like the new new world, except there's nobody living there. So there's no, you know, Native Americans to oppressor or harm or anything like that. So it's a frontier that doesn't have that aspect of conquest and oppression in the same way, it's just a pure digital frontier. And with virtual reality, by the way, this becomes much more than a metaphor, you know, you feel space in that, you know, with with Oculus, with, with virtual reality with, with the fact that we're spending on the order of 50% or more of our waking hours looking at a screen, you're really mentally you've emigrated to the cloud, right? It is there's billions of people who have immigrated to the cloud, they don't think of it quite this way. It's like they, you know, it's like people who live in Canada and come to the US for, you know, work and go back, right? It's kind of like that, you go to the cloud for work, and you come back, right, and your physical environment just becomes more and more and more of a commodity. You know, I mean, don't get me wrong, there are people who are like, really into the land, oh, the rivers have, you know, the hills of West Virginia or whatever. Great. Okay, love you to death. That's your, that's your thing. You'd love to help. Wonderful, I get it, right. But for, for a big chunk of people, that's just a piece of scenery. I mean, it's fine, you know, but you're not like spending that much time, like, the hills, ah, you know, and going in, like, like rolling on the hill or whatever, you know, um, and, and, you know, again, like, for people who have that preference, it's okay. But I think that a big chunk of the, the symbol manipulators in the world, right, you know, media, technology, finance, mathematics, physics, you know, all of these kinds of things are just less and less location dependent. And, and, you know, the thing is that mobility is leverage against the state, like law is a function of latitude, longitude, if you can move, I mean, in different ways, both mobile and VR, are ways to make your location less important. Right, the or you just go to the cloud, mobile, you move to another location, but both them reduce the cost of your, you know, the fixed aspect of your current location, how impactful it is. Go ahead.

Unknown Speaker  44:32  
So I mean, like, I it's funny, they keep mentioning Oculus I recently had Michael shamala was the CEO of fire blocks on it, and we were just talking about Libra and he Kenna I've been kind of discounting Libra as anything interesting in crypto because it's because it's coming from, like product managers, but he had a point of view that was quite scary to me. Which was imagine that What Libra folks do is they basically like make it super, super easy for everybody in the world that's outside of the US to click through their, like local regulation agreements and set up a Fiat ramp to go digital dollar for their local for everybody they're liking wherever they are. So it's not so much that like, Libra cares about the it's Think of it as like, people have access to Facebook's like, organization and team and marketing and like resources to onboard everybody on the same platform. And what makes it kind of frightening is that cryptography makes it secure and easy for them to do this decentralized custody, right? And makes it easy for them to onboard everyone. And it's just a matter of like, Can we get everybody in the world to click with this agreement and to become the local bank, that's everything is custody by Libra by this single blockchain that now has the entire world on it. Even if it's very regulated, even this is full KYC. It's not like crypto in the sense that you and I believe crypto is but the scary part there isn't them creating a product that's interesting, but it's the click through regulation. Basically, like, sure, we'll be compliant. And we will be compliant to the letter. But as soon as you as soon as the as soon as you're using cryptographic keys, whose like actual, like, values decided by this one blockchain. It doesn't matter. Right, you're screwed?

Unknown Speaker  46:42  
Well, yeah, I understand. I think I wouldn't worry about that at all, though. And here's why is, um, there's lots of things that you can imagine a large company would do if it was as nimble as a startup and had the resources of a large company. But the only things that actually can do, are those things that the CEO personally wants it to do if that person still has control over the company, because the issue is that, so you know, deserves credit, he saw that crypto was important. And he took a more aggressive stance on it, then, you know, Google, Facebook, Microsoft or Apple did, right. So he is, you know, the most innovative in that sense of the Big Five on this particular matter. But he got it wrong. And the reason I think they got it wrong is that crypto is to crypto is to desktop internet, as desktop internet was to, you know, desktop software or other let me put it slightly differently. crypto is to the internet is internet was to desktop software. That is to say, crypto like aetherium is to Google, as Google was to Microsoft, right or Google is to Borland, you know, are like those companies that don't exist anymore for the 90s. Right? Like, there's a whole jet like Microsoft, and Oracle and Apple are some of the very few that managed to maneuver through the issues of the 2000s and 2010s. And are still valuable companies unif Oracle, you know, I think like, I don't like it very much as a company, but I was tweeting about it even before this whole dump, tick tock thing as a negative example. Did you see that one tweet is basically like, last year, you could analogize sf to Java. This year, you analogize it to Oracle, you know, last year, you can say, right, SF was here on I'm gonna pull up these two tweets, whatever. I think it's

Unknown Speaker  48:29  
pretty funny.

Unknown Speaker  48:31  
Okay, so

Unknown Speaker  48:32  
this is all the faults of Sun Microsystems.

Unknown Speaker  48:35  
And Okay, so, July 10 2019. Choosing San Francisco in 2020 is like choosing Java in 2010. You can do it, you might even be able to build a great company with it. But it's a legacy choice. It's a default proven that makes it harder to do simple things and doesn't give you an advantage over incumbents. We're in an interesting transitional era where San Francisco and Delaware is obviously wrong. But incorporating on chain and going full remote is not yet obviously right. From price performance standpoint at a minimum, that means on chain incorporation needs to be systematized when you proof points, or it'll take the risk and Pioneer maybe something like Aragon project stripe Atlas, but on chain, the organization is defined on chain the nation state as a configurable parameter, right. So what's what's great that holds it pretty well, from a year ago, right? Yeah, and because we got it for that we got remote, right. And so now the new tweet is September I was like, last year San Francisco could be analogized to Java. This year. It's more like Oracle overpriced at any price, worsening with time, only justifiable as a legacy choice. And a big mistake to build your new business on relative to the alternatives. So that's my take on San Francisco. Go ahead. Shoot, give me give me your thoughts. You still inessa undisclosed location.

Unknown Speaker  49:53  
Okay and I am I'm still based in SF like actually out in Palm Springs avoiding the smoke There was something charming about San Francisco with no traffic. But I was like, Huh, this is like, a lot cooler now. Like, there's nobody here, right? Like, I the stuff that is missing. I didn't care about like, I mean. Yeah, I mean, like in LA.

Unknown Speaker  50:15  
Yeah, yeah. But your friends are in the cloud. I mean, look, you're gonna be signaling dming twittering, what's happening, etc. You don't meet that many people in person on a daily basis. You might you might talk to 10 x as many people digitally as you do physically, right. Am I wrong about that?

Unknown Speaker  50:33  
No. Yeah. Okay. Sure.

Unknown Speaker  50:35  
Okay, so, so again, so you're like the hills guy? Right?

Unknown Speaker  50:38  
Yeah. He loves hills. All right, great. Good.

Unknown Speaker  50:44  
But the thing about it is, is if you actually did a search, okay, for places with good weather, okay. I mean, let me let me express it differently. with the, with the smoke with the homeless problem with the prices, with the poop on the streets with the hostility of city government with the crime and like random attacks on people on with the fact that you can't really even meet people in person because of, you know, COVID restrictions, or whatever, or at least it's harder to do so with the fact that the cost of living is so much lower in other places. I mean, there's no way no way that from first principles, if everybody was just starting from scratch, you'd pick San Francisco, other than the fact that other people are already there physically, right. It's not like, you know, free to give you an example what I mean by from first principles, the San Francisco Bay, is an amazing place to do shipping. Right? If you're talking about like physical shipping, there's natural features of I mean, that's why it was initially, you know, colonized wherever, it's like this really great place to dock boats and whatnot, like, you know, all that type of stuff, right? So so that makes sense. from first principles, you you scour the world or scour the West Coast, you're like that spot, right? Or, you know, why do you go in and set up in Houston? or Why do you set up in North Dakota because there's oil there, there's actually like, a different kind of natural resource, not a bay or something, right here, with technology with the internet, the only natural resources the people, and, um, you know, so so that's, that's completely mobile, right? That's a mobile. So the natural resource based view means is, I shouldn't say it's obsolete, because, you know, you're still going to need natural resources, but so long as there's two or three or five providers, and they aren't like colluding, like OPEC, which is a big F. Right. Um, then the place is a parameter. You know, for example, we had this company teleport, which we sold, but basically, you know, I think it would have been millions of millions of users if ever gone to 2020, which was we've set up in 2014. co founded this, and I was, you know, sold sold in 2017 is fine. Um, it was basically a search engine to find the place in the world that optimizes your utility function. a completely different kind of, right.

Unknown Speaker  53:00  
ahead of the curve, right, I think,

Unknown Speaker  53:01  
yeah. That's awesome. I mean, like, my, we had like this conversation with my friends. Two years ago, we picked Columbia medion as like the prime spot.

Unknown Speaker  53:12  
There you go. And basically, you can be like Narcos or what have you, right here. I'm gonna I'm gonna let's see.

Unknown Speaker  53:17  
No, it wasn't. It wasn't the same time zone. Right? As Yes. Like, so you could work on tech, you're in a much cheaper location. There's awesome universities there. Right. It's like a growing like, kind of fast city. Like that. That's interesting. Right, then like, you're not stuck in San Francisco.

Unknown Speaker  53:34  
Exactly. No, I mean, like, I actually, I was just tweeting about this how launch toots, if you you know, the hardest thing is remote can be divided into different levels. Right. And at least one of my commenters made this observation, it was actually a valuable secret. I mean, again, this is not novel. People have been talking about this for 20 years or whatever. But I think it's a useful term synchronous remote versus asynchronous remote. secrecy wrote is like plus minus one or two timezones asynchronous remote is a truly global distributed team. And I think an important thing for any org chart is to, you know, require people to be plus minus one or two timezones and, you know, then then what you might do is, it might be that the executives coordinate, and one of them just, there's like one person who doesn't have to get a lot of sleep. Right, you know, a time to time rather than 20 There you go. Right. Okay. So, so, but I think that is going to be an important thing. You know, actually a related thing to this is I'm actually surprised that nobody has made any to do list that is integrated with the org chart, you know, like you basically as a manager want to look at especially a CEO, you want to kind of look at the org chart constantly as if you'd look at your you know, your your your architecture of your, you know, company or your corporate infrastructure, and yet, and what do you want to see is like, drill To do this right, like be able to monitor what folks are doing, and so on and so forth. That doesn't really exist, which is kind of surprising. It seems like a very obvious view. Go ahead.

Unknown Speaker  55:08  
Yeah, we've been actually successful in being in kind of globally spread out time zones. Because we almost there's like, almost like, we got this like, kind of natural handoff that hovers in like, the San Francisco's timezone. They work a little later. And then like the Europe, Europe, and Asia starts picking it up. It is bizarre, because crypto is 24. Seven, and we kind of bring over customers and users 24 seven.

Unknown Speaker  55:35  
I think I think I think you can make it work. I mean, crypto is interesting, because there's really a value to having somebody on call at all times, right? Someone who's just like, oh, shit, you know, this? Is this blowing up on Twitter or whatever, like this whole sushi thing or whatever, right? Like you could send it some people were asleep, on. So I recognize all that. Um, I still think, however, that at least for individual teams, there's some value in synchronicity. Because, you know, you can get pretty far with a sink, you know, like GitHub issues, and so on and so forth. But sometimes it's like so much faster to just whiteboard something for five minutes, then to discuss it for a long time, she just go back and forth. latency. So just give feedback.

Unknown Speaker  56:18  
Go ahead. The odd thing is that we are synchronous, that

Unknown Speaker  56:22  
people are just weird time zones.

Unknown Speaker  56:24  
It's just that like, there is like a context like tribal context. Handoff between me talking to somebody and then that person talking to the next person.

Unknown Speaker  56:32  
That's cool. That's really good. If you can make that

Unknown Speaker  56:34  
work. I don't know if it actually scales or just the fact that I don't sleep.

Unknown Speaker  56:43  
Thing is the CEO basically has to be the guy who is who's taking that hit for sure.

Unknown Speaker  56:48  
Well, cool. We we've gone like way over time, but this has been like, really fascinating conversation. It's been like really a pleasure to talk to, or it's been awesome, like, Yeah, really cool to have you on the show. And thank you so much. Awesome.

Transcribed by https://otter.ai
