Unknown Speaker  0:00  
Warning. This program typically features respectful nuance and well informed commentary, strong language obscure pop culture references and spurious allegations.

Unknown Speaker  0:08  
new methods of attack

Unknown Speaker  0:13  
approach and

Unknown Speaker  0:15  
the fifth column column column. So this is another installment of the fifth column. Not our usual dispatch, no Moynahan, no Welsh. Yes, Camille foster still doing things at free think at the moment. This conversation includes two other steamed gentlemen, both of whom have had a lot of interesting things to say. Over the course of the last couple of months while most of us have been isolated in various ways, and certainly, at the course of our regular lives disrupted, and find ourselves surrounded by a lot of questions and a great deal of uncertainty. I've been relying on their perspectives and thought it would be really interesting and beneficial, both to me personally, and hopefully to you as well, to sit down and talk with both of them for a little while. Conor friedersdorf is a friend of former guest on the podcast, also a staff writer at the Atlantic and the founding editor of the best of journalism newsletter, which you should subscribe to and pay for lots of great insights there. And Balaji Srinivasan former CTO at Coinbase, former general partner of Andreessen Horowitz. And if you haven't been on planet Neptune, you're almost certainly paying attention to some of the things he's been saying on Twitter. One of the things that I noticed in the last couple of weeks was hashtag Balaji was right. What he's been right about is being among the very first people that I saw, taking the pandemic quite seriously and warning about just how dire circumstance it might be, in a period when a lot of national media coverage, and certainly a number of mainstream policymakers were a lot less inclined to take it very seriously. I think there's something inherently interesting about getting a call like that, right. And while I'm interested in the specific things about COVID, that helped you get there, I'm also interested in having a broader conversation about making decisions, in uniquely uncertain circumstances where there's just a lot of disparate knowledge and information. But I was also inspired by something I saw Tyler Cowen, write in a column over at Bloomberg a couple of weeks ago, or maybe a week ago, about UFOs, of all things, suggesting that it is perhaps appropriate for us to think about some of the people who might be taking some of the reporting about UFOs, that's happened recently, at least a bit more seriously. And he used this phrase flexibility of mind to describe people like you, Balaji, who have seemingly been taking some of those reports seriously, and also happened to be among the small cadre of people who saw these reports early and was appropriately concerned about what was going on. So maybe we start there, and you can help me understand what it is about the pandemic that you were able to spot early on? Well, I think that there's at least two large current camps in the US roughly, there's like a kind of an East Coast camp of what I call conventional wisdom, but Tyler would call the base traders who essentially say, hey, everything's gonna be the same as it was, Hey, stop changing things. Hey, why are you changing things? Change is bad. You tech bro. x, you invented x, for some value of x bus, you invented a bus, you know, that kind of thing? Right? And, you know, so that's like, one school of thought, right? And it's it's basically small c conservative, in the sense that it prizes, the status quo, things change. disruption is bad, all the type of stuff, right. And frankly, it's often as Tyler would also say, it's often correct in the same sense that like, you know, one of the best models for predicting the weather is to predict that tomorrow is going to be saying this, you know, yesterday, right? Or today. And that's a pretty good model, you default to being mostly correct. But where it breaks down is when change is actually coming. And

Unknown Speaker  4:20  
the big thing is that, you know, because the East Coast is fundamentally about, really, you can see what it's about, as you can see, it's about Wall Street, or what have you. But I think at the most fundamental level East casius is about politics. And that's, you know, the New York Times and it's Washington, DC. It's also in a sense, it's Harvard, you know, which is which is providing the input for policymakers who are happy. And in politics, something that is true, doesn't really matter. What matters is whether it's popular. And so, you know, if something doesn't have a constituency for it, then it doesn't matter, you know, to first shorter and that's, that's a lens through which these folks, I think you Know what, like, see everything? And you know, I grew up on the east coast. I, I know some of the mentality and and understand why, by the way, because there's the large class of truth is that our political truths political truths are like, you know, where's the border? Or what's the value of a currency or who's the president, those are truths which you can affect by installing software into people's heads, you know, by whether it's media, whether it's a policy announcement, you change human behavior, you can change the political shirts, there's a totally different school, which is kind of the the West Coast school, that's about technical shirts, you know, what is the diameter of this virus in microns, you know, or, you know, what's the value of a gravitational constant, right? Like, are the gravitational constant, right? This is this is stuff where it doesn't matter what other people think it matters, what is true, right, and those are technical truths. Now, crucially, both political and technical truths are important. But it's kind of like which one you think about more, you know, or which one you think of as prime and what have you. And, you know, one of the things about the the West Coast as well, as, you know, innovation is actually rewarded here. But when I say a West Coast, East Coast, these are only very broadly geographical things, you know, the things which, you know, our west coast state of mind, you know, our east coast state of mind, you know, you have East Coast people on the west coast, and vice versa. But the West Coast state of mind, Silicon Valley, state of mind, one person with an idea might be correct, and 7 billion people might be wrong, or under estimating it or not understanding it. And that, you know, that correct concept if you can identify it as correct, and not just correct, but something that's true today, and will be popular. Okay, so it's not the popularity is not a consideration, it's that it will become accepted as true in some relatively near timeframe, right. You know, there's an incentive for for that there's an incentive for thinking different for finding something that it's true, even if it's not yet popular, or may not be popular for some time, a financial incentive, but then that also leads to sort of a, a state of mind where you're looking at the things that are unpopular, but true, whereas on the East Coast, it's popular, and it doesn't matter whether it's true. Okay, let me pause there. That's, that's the thing, a macro framework, in the context of the pandemic, I appreciate the framework you laid out. But I also find myself a bit flummoxed because I consider myself someone who is very open to change. And I'm someone who is generally an advocate for a lot of the innovation that I see happening on the west coast and coming out of various tech companies that I see certain other segments of society be a bit more skeptical of, and a little more uncertain about. Um, but at the same time, the particularly dire warnings that I was seeing early on, didn't necessarily resonate with me. And my inclination was to view it as catastrophism. And I wonder why there's still a bit of a disconnect. Yeah.

Unknown Speaker  8:06  
So you know, something I think about a lot is in tech, you know, if you're running a company, you have to be both an incredible optimist and incredible pessimists. If your own biggest booster, you have to be your company's biggest booster, because if you don't market yourself, no one else will and so on and so forth. And their hand you have to take a gimlet eye to everything you're doing, and constantly critique it and dismantle it from first principles, because you might be missing something, there's a you know, there's a new product, a new feature, etc. Right. So, so you have to have both. And then one of the things I think it's very different about the West Coast versus east coast is we frequently see institutions die, either it's a company that does, you know, like a relatively new one that just ran out of money or died, something that people put a lot of work into, or it's an industry that just got disrupted. Right. And so we're familiar with the idea that, you know, decisions matter, individuals matter. Here today, gone tomorrow, there's high volatility. You know, Andy Grove actually wrote one of the classic books on this, only the Paranoid survive. I mean, that's a book that every tech co like reads typically. And I think that's part of Coronavirus. It was actually the first thing which I'd ever spotted on the horizon, which had many of the characteristics of like a tech startup almost, you know, in the sense of or concept idea that could go vertical, right? I mean, Ebola, other things had these characteristics, but it was something which could go vertical, and it was bad if it did, whereas something let's say, like, Bitcoin or Facebook, or, you know, Uber or what have you, like, those are things where you do your data analysis and you'd see this thing could go vertical, and generally speaking, you know, I think those things have made the world overall a better place and Whereas this was something where if it was right about it, it makes the world a worse place. And that was an interesting and uncomfortable position to be in. But the same sort of analytical toolbox of trying to diligence a curve and seeing is this gonna break in month one, month five, you know, year two, etc, the same kind of toolbox you use. I was applying to this and trying to break it, and I couldn't. And that's, you know, kind of what led me to the only the Paranoid survive, you know, Andy Grove sort of thing. And so started tweeting about it. Yeah. Connor, you'll have to wait for me to tag you in, you can jump in at any point. Yeah. You know, I'm thinking about all of this. People that I was following on Twitter, earliest, who were attuned to this tended to be academics. I think Nicholas Christakis was probably the first one that I saw on my feed who is attuned to this. And, you know, I think you would find in circles that follow viral contagions of various kinds, whether as sociologists or epidemiologists, or medical doctors, you know, they were ahead of the curve. And thinking about this.

Unknown Speaker  11:08  
I think that the press in general has a couple of biases that played into the way that this story filtered out. And I think one of those biases at the institutional level of a place like the New York Times, is a bias that is shared with a lot of politicians, which is, we don't want to needlessly panic people, it would be irresponsible to needlessly panic people. Of course, we see the press go wrong in all sorts of directions on all sorts of stories where there's a degree of panic mongering, and this is where talking about the media, without differentiating between what the New York Post puts on its front page, and what the news pages of the New York Times look like, and what opinion people at MSNBC and Fox News do. You know, you need to differentiate between these things to have a kind of coherent picture. But I do think among people in the media who weren't particularly specialists on the infectious disease beat, there is some sense that, well, we've seen things like SARS before. And there was a lot of panic about SARS, the swine flu, h one n one. And we don't want to have too much panic, we don't want to scare people needlessly. And so we're going to look to experts like the World Health Organization, and kind of see what they're saying and use that as the basis for the overall tenor of coverage we're going to have, I think that's the way that a lot of non specialist writers and editors in the media work. And, you know, I felt like I was ahead of the public curve almost entirely due to following people that I trusted on Twitter and seeing the way that they were reacting to this. And so I was in a position in February where I called my parents, because I follow people on Twitter that were treating this first as a potential supply chain disruption thing. And, and saying, Oh, look at all of the medicines that are produced in China. And so my first interaction with this was to pass along information to my parents, because I have three grandparents in their 90s. And I just said, Hey, you might want to order prescriptions. I don't know exactly what they're taking, but you might want to get a little bit of advanced supply, because this thing and move on could affect that. And it was maybe a week or two after that, that I made a trip to Costco to just kind of bulk up on my emergency food supplies. And I walked in expecting there to be a long line of people and maybe no rice. And in fact, no, I got to the checkout. And I asked the person if people had been stocking up and it's like, no, are you crazy? What what are you even talking about? rosette? February? Yeah, sometime in February, like late February. And, you know, at that time I was thinking about, I kind of see this thing that's coming and should I be writing about it in the pages of the Atlantic? And I felt like I did not have the expertise or credentials to persuade anyone that they should possibly Listen to me on this. And I think that that was probably correct. I mean, I could barely get my parents who implicitly trust me to to like act on my advice. So the idea that as a generalist, writer I was going to to move public sentiment, I think was unrealistic. But I do think that compared to other publications, the Atlantic was a little bit ahead of the curve, because oh, yeah, we had a medical doctor Jim Hamblin, who used who was hired initially to be our health editor and who's been on staff as a staff writer ever since. Who brought a level of persuasive expertise to this story, that, you know, maybe one of his early stories, I think it was titled like, you were like, likely to get the Coronavirus or something. Yep. That, you know, it was widely read and I think changed the impression of a lot of people. And I think his article the small way and bigger events like the NBA canceling season, and Tom Hanks getting this thing, I think of those as very seminal moments that just like brought more people into the curve of taking this seriously, because everyone has these different heuristics that they operate with. And they're really different for different kinds of people in different universes.

Unknown Speaker  15:31  
That piece that James wrote, I just looked it up February 24, is actually when it was published. And I actually thought it was a little earlier, I think I pulled up stakes and left New York around the 14th, or the 15th of February. And I'd made plans to leave about a week before that. And when I ultimately decided to do it wasn't because I was terribly concerned about the pandemic itself, I was actually slightly more concerned about the institutional response. But that was the thing that actually was at the forefront of my mind there was I allowed for the possibility that things could get sufficiently bad that I would need to be in a place where I can have firearms, as well as have a lot of food stored away. But at the same time, I was probably a bit more concerned about the over response to something that might not be nearly as severe as people feared. I want to I want to just add a couple of points. I mean, Connor, you know that, to me, the biggest issue with I'm just going to use this term, and you might win said it. So by the I think the Atlantic actually did do a good job. But um, the biggest problem, I think that the corporate media sort of response of this is, they're not incentivized for truth. They're incentivized for clicks, and for subscriptions, and so on, and the set criticism has been made so many times that it's actually like tried, but then it kind of loops around where it gets very fundamental is they get paid, there's no, there's no check on them. Besides other media outlets, and if you know, a citizen dares to criticize corporate journalist, then you know, there's a whole gang on Twitter who will yell and scream, right? Oh, my God, I can't believe you criticize journalists now. And yet, without that feedback mechanism, there is no correction of the news because they themselves are not incentivized to correct it Put another way, unless one media outlet breaks, ranks and writes something different as James Hamblin didn't do, then there is no, there's no other institution or authority that can hold them accountable. sincera the truth forming mechanism of society, right? This is a really fundamental problem. And, you know, it gets even more fundamentally problematic when these folks are not just not getting it, right, which is excusable, but actively attacking the folks who are, that's extremely dangerous. And so that's, that's basically something where I think there's a major component on this, there's actually a lady Kelsey tuaca, at Vox, who wrote that she was, you know, kind of concerned about writing about this. And part of it was, oh, the attacks that would come and so on. And, you know, I thought was very honest of her that she's, like, you know, one of the one of the honest, honest folks there. And, and I think the connard, sort of relate to what you were saying about how, you know, you didn't think you'd be taken seriously, and so on on this. That's something where there's, there's a greater degree of pressure to conform in, I would say, the East Coast, kind of corporate media, you know, circles than there is in others. There's one other angle on this, by the way, which I think is very important, and maybe underappreciated, which is the sort of, for lack of a term American exceptionalism, or Western arrogance, or whatever you want to call it. You know, the US just didn't take this seriously. And the reason he didn't take it seriously is the US is number one. And it's always been number one, and will always be number one, no matter what we do. And no matter how much we fight, no matter how many wars and how many financial crisis and so on, it's like, you know, that there's an endless amount of Ruin in the nation. Right. And I don't think that's true, even though you know, there's a saying there's a great deal of Ruin in a nation. That's true. There's an infinite amount, right. Yeah. And so I think that the US, for example, only started taking the thing seriously, when Italy was melting down. folks didn't take China seriously as appear on the world stage. Uh, you know, and I don't know where that exactly comes from it. I think it's something where people have traveled there, or maybe they have and they still think there's third world or something. But it wasn't real for people until it was, you know, too late. And I think part of this is because there are all these foreign wars and, you know, there's Venezuela and Iraq and whatnot on people's television screens, and you just Flip it off, and it's just existed another reality. Right? You know, there's there's, you know, like, obviously there's soldiers who, you know, aren't going out there and dealing with the stuff or in some cases fighting the wars and what have you, but, but your average citizen can just safely tune it out as something going on over there. Except a deadly pandemic doesn't behave like that. I think

Unknown Speaker  20:20  
that that's great. I do think that the experience of SARS and and to a lesser degree MERS people just saw them kind of happen in China and I think had this notion that perhaps because this is such a densely populated place, this is different than the last. I'm going to push back on you on there. Here's why. anthrax in 2001. That was a big thing, like in the US remember, like the whole anthrax scare after 911? Yeah, bio defense was a huge thing that the US was supposed to have set up after that. There's all these bio defense preparedness things. There's also the Ebola scare in 2014, George W. Bush actually read john Berry's book, The Great influenza, this was recently reported. And you know, he had basically tried to get pandemic defense in 2005. ish. So yeah, so there was prep. It just it was just words on a page. It just didn't matter. Yeah, why? Yeah. And you know, sort of Swartz Nagar also did a lot of prep in California. But, but I'm talking about the just the public response, looking at these stories filtering out of China and thinking, is this going to get to me or not? I just think that the past experience of seeing these infectious diseases and kind of having an awareness that people were going around China, even in Hong Kong and Japan wearing masks, I think that people coded that as a thing that happens for reasons they didn't understand, in perhaps densely populated Eastern Asian countries. I think that that was the kind of mindset more so than just a generalized kind of Western exceptionalism. Well, and I understand where you're coming from, let me let me poke again, it's very recurring discussion I've had on Twitter is, I will point out, New Zealand got the virus under control. And Australia did and South Korea, and Taiwan did. And you know, Singapore is getting it under control, even if they don't believe that China has, yeah, and there's Austria, and there's not not Australia, but Austria and Europe, right, and Slovakia and so and so forth. And each time they'll say, Oh, it's an island. Oh, it's peninsula. Oh, you know, like, Oh, it's Vietnam, you know, or whatever. Right. And, and there's always some other excuse. And basically, I feel that the country had became fat and happy and content. That's not even really the right term, because it wasn't happy. But it was it basically became disconnected from reality. And, you know, one of the there's another aspect of this also Connor, which is you mentioned, you know, okay, sorry, this happened. And that was within human experience. And therefore, it was planned for and whatnot, right? Well, from our vantage point, like kind of the tech person or their vantage point, there was a lot of panic being stoked by the New York Times, it was just about viral apps rather than deadly viruses. Okay. And it was basically like, they're spending all of their energy attacking their direct competitors, technology companies. But there's this amazing article by the CTO of New York Times it talks about how new kinds of technology company that's driving subscriptions and revenue. And it's like, it's just, it's just all out there, right? Like, there's no, there's no like pretense anymore that their direct competitors to Facebook and Google for influencing advertisers. I know that a lot of corporate journalists will resist that frame. yet. It's so true that it's hard to I am interested in talking more about the incentives of journalists. Because I agree that there are some flawed incentives. I don't know that I agree with exactly the way you put it. Which is to say, I don't know that there's a distinction between the incentives of corporate journalists and non corporate journalists, insofar as people are motivated by wanting to reach people or get clicks. The same incentives could apply to someone who sets up a blog on blogspot, but even still exists. or, or, you know, tweets or writes on Facebook, for that matter. Sure, wanting to reach people is and always has been an incentive for journalists, sometimes pernicious, sometimes not. I still think that every journalist I know well, which I think is hopefully a little bit better than average quality of journalist at least I tried to pick my company well, but getting something wrong, and being corrected, is just the worst feeling that any of these people have. Correct, right. Yeah. So I think that there's a sense in which actually, fear of getting something big wrong, is bearing as heavily on possibly not getting a story right sometimes, right?

Unknown Speaker  24:57  
So this is actually the same as academia where A correction or retraction is like a black mark. Right? You know, it's something which, oh, you're supposed to get it right 100% of time and so on. There's actually three different models of approximate and iterative truth, that are kind of tech West Coast models, right. The first is a bottle of the GitHub if you know github.com, or get right, where, when you do software development, there's there's a list of open bugs, open issues on any piece of software, whether it's a Linux kernel, or zoom, or, you know, a Google search engine, you know, you go to GitHub, and you know, any open source project, you will see, the more popular the project, the more flaws there are in the project, those flaws are openly acknowledged. And the code is just constantly edited over time. In fact, if there aren't hundreds or thousands of bugs open on a project, well, it's not being actively developed, you have less trust in it, then you know, otherwise, right? So that's, that's a model of kind of iterative truth. Number one, the second model is like the VC model, where you don't have to get everything right. But you have to get the big things, right. And there's a numerical check on it, which is dollars, right? You know, you are held to account by the market, and you kind of quantify the confidence in your bets. And we actually literally do this with Andreessen in other places where we put percentages on things, you know, as we do bets. The third model is perhaps the most important in the medium to long term, which I don't think most folks in journalism are thinking about in this way. But Michael Casey and Paul Wagner, The Wall Street Journal wrote a really good book called The truth machine, which is, which explains this concept for a popular audience. And essentially, it is that cryptocurrency and blockchain are model of adversarial of truth in an adversarial environment, right? Like That is to say that the database of who holds what Bitcoin, that's, that's a database that holds 100 billion dollars of value, and anybody who could mess with it would, because you could give yourself a billion dollars, but no one can. And so does whether the Democrat or Republican, American or Chinese, you know, like German or French, whatever, everybody has the same truth of entries in the Bitcoin blockchain. And that actually, that model can be extended to other kinds of things. So there's an ultra model for truth, you know, then then just get it right and say it's always right. And the other thing that that I think is important is, um, because there's such a penalty to being corrected. There's a strong incentive to Stonewall and to groupthink, because you can only be corrected by another card carrying journalist. That's effectively like it's a cultural centralization around Brooklyn. And this is why

Unknown Speaker  27:43  
I don't think that that's true,

Unknown Speaker  27:44  
Camille, it feels laughing, though.

Unknown Speaker  27:47  
I both agree and disagree with

Unknown Speaker  27:50  
her on poking by the app. Okay. Yeah,

Unknown Speaker  27:54  
yeah, I certainly think it's true that there are some some incentives that produce bad outcomes in journalism. And I certainly think that both with journalism, and with the hard sciences and in various other places, and I know, we've actually talked about this before Balaji, that there are these priesthoods, almost these various disciplines that people regard as almost mystical in their ability to define the truth, and to deliver knowledge to us in ways that are, if not completely mysterious, there, at least inaccessible to us, right. And in order to play in that space. And in order to critique the work that's being done in order to really understand it, you have to be a practitioner. And if you're not, then you are a lay person who is essentially waiting for someone to bring you the truth. And interestingly, like my own perspective on what is fundamentally wrong with journalism, and likely what contributes to journalists and experts missing calls like this, and depending upon the the comfort of making decisions and holding opinions that are popular in conventional, is that there is a, as you mentioned earlier, the public is likely to punish someone who is seen as getting things wrong. And the public actually has, generally speaking, an attitude towards these disciplines and towards the notion of truth, that's pretty absolutist. And because that popular presumption exists not only within the discipline, but outside amongst all of us who depend on these different professions, that it seems to me is a pretty dangerous cycle. And one really does have to not only create a new incentive structure for people who actually do these jobs, but at some point, you have to try to persuade people that no, this is not something that you can't have a perspective on because you're not assigned to Just like science isn't a priestly order, it's a process. And you can be involved in that process if you understand the rules. And if you understand the rules, then you can have a general sensibility about, you know, how to engage with the conclusions that it reaches. And you can be involved in the process of starting to ask good questions, you can even learn to ask questions, which is perhaps the most important thing that anyone can do in a context like this, let me try and lay out a kind of broad framework for how I understand these things and give a couple of examples because this I sometimes I sometimes hear media criticism, and I'm not saying this about yours, which is very thoughtful and specific. But I sometimes hear a kind of generalized media criticism, complaints about the media. And I almost think it's as if someone went to a restaurant and got a bad meal, or saw someone else get food poisoning. And then they said, Oh, my God, the restaurants are terrible, the restaurants are just killing us. They're like, we need to just have a better quality of the restaurants. And I think that

Unknown Speaker  31:13  
difference differentiation is really important. There's just such dramatically different moods and incentives that different kinds of press outlets. And as far as I'm concerned, we actually know very little about the quality of these outlets over time, how does the New York Times compare it to bygone eras of the New York Times to other newspapers to newspapers and other countries, let alone comparing across mediums. But I think at least one fundamental problem across all media is that you're almost always having people who are mediators of information, they are not experts themselves. Yes. And this is on some level, I guess, unfortunate, but it is also inevitable. There is no way around this we need mediators of information. There is no other way. I think of different mediators of information, operating in different modes, right? Some people are going out and trying to find facts and reporting those facts, right. And that is one way that people get information and understand them. They read a story in a newspaper, and it has a fact in it. And that fact is sourced and they either accept that or not, right? If you think about a different mode, something like you know, I worked for a few years for andrew sullivan and followed the rise of the blogosphere and knew the daily dish in particular, since I worked for him. You might think of that mode as someone who is trying to air a bunch of arguments for people who come to the truth by following this debate, this kind of crucible of public discourse in the hopes that the strong arguments will win out, and you get a lot of information and a lot of things make sense to you or don't make sense to you. And you tend to orient yourself around what are strong arguments and what are weak arguments and over time, you hopefully come closer and closer to the truth. And these things get mixed and muddled up in different mediums in among different writers. Some writers are really strong at spotting good arguments, they would be really good at passing the L SAT, that would be one skill set of journalists, right. Some journalists would be terrible at passing the outset, they would fail the outside, even though they're excellent writers. And even though they're excellent reporters, excellent under thirds of information. And I don't know better way to get good information than to be and to have a sophisticated understanding of who you're reading and what their strengths and weaknesses, weaknesses are. And also what their implicit model is for what they're telling you. Right. If you read Vox without knowing the biases of Vox, you might be led astray. If you read Vox, kind of knowing where they're coming from.

Unknown Speaker  33:47  
They are relatively diligent within their project. If you take away the flaws of their project, they're pretty good at doing what they do within it. So I'll conclude by telling you one story that I wrestled with, during this pandemic, because I'm in a position where I have a lot of freedom to pitch different stories and follow my interests. And the pandemic isn't nearly the beat that I was on before this is happening. One of the many beats that this was on. And so for a lot of stories, I feel like this is something that Jim Hamblin a medical doctor or at young science writer, are much better reading than me, and I'm going to let them do this thing's still. There are some people who tend to follow things and understand the truth through the kinds of arguments that I put out. Are there fans of mine that follow me on social media or and so I think how can I be helpful and get them the information that I need and be responsible purveyor of information responsible go between, right? And so one story that came I came across it was in the LA Times, and it was by this woman who works at the Scripps Institute of Oceanography. And this is is an institution that I have a good amount of respect for as an institution, I years ago wrote a book about the four guys who started SeaWorld and talked to a lot of Scripps people and had reason to just like trust Scripps Institution. And this particular person had 20 years of experience, or something like that, that was laid out in the article studying pathogens in, in the ocean, right. And I grew up in Southern California, I've had plenty of ear x because I went surfing or boogie boarding after it rained. I know that. I know that these things. I know that bacteria can flow into the ocean from source that this is a way that you can get sick. And I read this article, and this woman was suggesting, she said something like you couldn't pay me a million dollars to go in the ocean right now. In fact, I wouldn't even walk beside the ocean. Because you see the phone coming up on the shore. And that pops in. That's enough to disperse viral particles. And we don't know the concentrations of coronavirus that could be at the beach. And she was suggesting that people shouldn't even be walking, you know, within 20 feet or 30 feet of the ocean. So I read this, I I certainly think that the national media has an East Coast bias. So I tend to be on the lookout for stories of West Coast relevance and coming from West Coast institutions. And that would impact fellow Californians. And you know, occasionally I'll write something for the LA Times. So I thought should Is this the category of thing that if it were true, I would want to pass along. But also I don't believe this for a second. And I don't have a good reason for not believing this. You know, just as I'm like going through and reading this article, I just thought that just doesn't sound right to me, which article was just going about not walking near the sea, because of what reason again, because the coronavirus could be in the ocean. And waves could wash up onto the shore and spread viral particles in the air as the foam burst. And this could infect a lot of people, right? So for a whole bunch of reasons. I thought that just doesn't scan, I'm reading around, I'm paying pretty close attention. I just I just can't believe that that's right. On the other hand, this person has all the right credentials, they're from an institution that I ought to find trustworthy that I do find trustworthy. And, you know, should I should I invest my scarce time looking into this? Should I retweet this LA Times article right now, just in case it's true. I did not do that. Because my prior was that it was false, that this person was just wrong, no matter what her credentials were. But my point is kind of like making that decision about whether to reach to it or not either way, has costs. I had really Yep. I had no basis for rejecting this one in conclusion based on your expertise, you know, I know nothing in this realm. And it just didn't sound right to me. And I did you know, a couple days later, I happened to have a phone call with with Nicholas Christakis for a piece I was writing about whether doctors and nurses should be free to speak out in hospitals. And I kind of ran it by him. And I was like, this doesn't sound right to me, but just tell me what you think. And you really write to me either. And if you really wanted to check into it, here's a couple things that you might look at. But right, but you know, and and, you know, ask, so asking informed people, they kind of, but I say all of this, because a lot of the small decisions about where to spend ones time, or what to amplify, or even what to write turns on a series of judgment calls that it's very hard to make hard and fast rules for. And this is a challenge for every journalistic institution. Because

Unknown Speaker  38:43  
you really have to just hire people

Unknown Speaker  38:47  
who have good judgment most of the time. And it's very hard to do quality control at the bottom. Because, again, there are no hard and fast rules that one can apply. One can go wrong, if the hard and fast rule is here's a list of institutions that we trust, and when they say something, and when the people at them have X number of schools and extra degrees and X number of studies that they've published before we just print that right, that is not a viable, you know, we distinguish technical diligence from social diligence. Technical technical diligence, is I can get under the hood of this right, I can look at the carburetor or the spark plugs, you know, the equivalent, you know, whether it's oceanography or biology or computer science or what have you. And I can render an expert opinion on this, or I can get expert enough quickly that, you know, I can I can do this right. And then social diligence is this other person who I trust has signed off on it. And the thing about, you know, technology is there's enough new things that you can't outsource, you know, social tools as a component here, you know, for sure, right, like people will follow Peter If you invest in something that's a form of social diligence in the same way that the New York Times publishing on something makes it fair game for people to cite as fact and get behind it and do more stories on it and media, right, very concrete example of that, is Vox, you know, a pop apologia for getting the whole Coronavirus, strong story so grievously wrong. And basically, you know, the writer of it admitted, like, you know, three fourths of the way down that what convinced him was hearing the New York Times say that it was actually a real issue, right? That was what convinced him right. Now, what didn't convince him were like, the thousand graphs and charts or videos from China or anything like that, it was simply a priest, giving a thumbs up, right? The second thing is the folks who can sign off on something being capital T true, you know, technically, we talked with this concept of consensus algorithm, right? Or an epistemology algorithm, right? What is your algorithm for determining that this is true? And, you know, for example, you need that to come to a consensus on which transactions have been mined in Bitcoin, you know, like, who has, what debits and credits? Or, you know, if you're talking about a knowledge graph, you know, when you Google and you're like, I don't know, Louis, the 14th. Born when, right yeah, that's, that's like, Okay, what is true about this? What is the true fact that you're trying to pull up? So actually, you think about this a lot in technology, right, like what is true and what is false? You write code for this kind of thing. And I'm increasingly what, what the belief here is not among everybody, but but i think it's it's definitely taken a turn after Coronavirus is that the folks who are supposed to be professionally informing us on a have used most of their ammo over the last six years, most certainly a lot of it on at their corporate competitors, tech companies in the name of some, you know, like abstract good, but actually, in pursuit of their own interests, demonizing Facebook, demonizing Google demonizing every tech company, oh, you tech roads cetera. And, in fact, talking down to people who had more technical knowledge than they have. Right. And, and so, you know, the recognition is basically that, um, that's, there's something fundamentally broken there. And one of the issues and now to put, you know, like, some of the fault on tech side is Twitter and Facebook and Facebook especially has incentivized people to attack Facebook, like, like all the likes, and the the tweets and so on, like that. All those mechanisms have, actually, you know, Facebook saw this at the very, very, very beginning of the newsfeed the moment they launched the newsfeed you know, the first story that went viral in the newsfeed.

Unknown Speaker  42:49  
No,

Unknown Speaker  42:51  
we're focusing the newsfeed sucks.

Unknown Speaker  42:55  
Okay, yeah. So so this is something where everybody's conscious, they know that they have created a Frankenstein's monster, in a sense, right. And now, I say, in a sense, because I do not think it's all bad. I think there's been a massive democratization of access to information. I think that as terrible as like, the Infowars type nonsense is there, there is out there. I think it's also very important that we have on good scientists and engineers writing directly on Twitter and whatnot, because you can learn a lot from that, right, with a little bit of a filter, you can learn you can learn a great deal and get ahead of things. So so I think an important question is what is, you know, is funny, but what is the future of media look like? Right? Yeah, um, because this is as big a disaster for the country, as you know, weapons of mass destruction in Iraq, except, it's, you know, the, the entire US now that's affected. It's not just a war over there where every Iraqi is affected. It's, you know, a catastrophic, you know, failure here. And it's not just today, as bad as it is today. It's it actually goes back much farther. You mentioned something i thought was very interesting, which is vocs within their domain was, you know, good, right? Well, not within their domain. Exactly what they tend to accurately relay assertions and sometimes arguments and perspectives of the experts that they, that they overvalue that they they falsely take as as obviously correct. Right. Well, not not always falsely, but

Unknown Speaker  44:32  
sometimes.

Unknown Speaker  44:32  
Yeah, no, I think that they like I think that they over estimate the degree to which, like, I don't think that they fully understand the uncertainty problem or dirts information. But I do think that when they tell you that, you know, this professor at the Kennedy School of Government put together this study that came to these conclusions, they're pretty good at describing. Here's what it here's what it's Yeah, exactly.

Unknown Speaker  44:55  
Yeah, I'd say that. That's that's about right.

Unknown Speaker  44:58  
So that's what I was trying to say. One of the things that we have seen over and over again, I think, I think this is much more tangible to us maybe I say us, I mean like the broader tech community, whatever it is. There's there's sort of a process of monkeys petting their fur and getting to relative consensus in like this East Coast community about what is true. And then reality is like, often 1000 acts off. It's in the like, I'll give some examples. Bitcoin is dead. Oh, it's up 10,000 x since that article. Right. Well, I'll give it I'll give more. The Coronavirus has been contained. 1000 x off, right. A million extra? Yeah. Um, you know, Google's toughest searches for a business model, right? amazon dot bomb, or another one that just came out, which is amazingly terrible. It'll be looked at as just awful. Is the article. Oh, VR sucks. And VR is about to like, go berserk. Right. But this is in the New York Times recently. I agree that there are all kinds of terribly inaccurate stories in the media. Right. But it seems as but but I'm not saying

Unknown Speaker  46:01  
I'm not saying like just

Unknown Speaker  46:02  
like these stories and compare them to like the best minds in tech. I would be sure that's what he's what he's getting at it. I wanted to hear because I think I think I've actually danced. I know how to fix turn, okay,

Unknown Speaker  46:14  
like I haven't.

Unknown Speaker  46:16  
Yeah, the capital T truth is the problem. Oftentimes, it's completely inaccessible, like no one really knows. And the truth will be revealed eventually, and in the tech industry. And for VCs, you invest in the right thing, and you will be rewarded mightily for it if you get it. Right. The difficulty is we are often writing stories, and it is necessarily uncertain. And even now, logic, as I follow you on Twitter, it can be a bit maddening, because you will give me several different things. And they're all true. But they don't add up to a Conor friedersdorf opinion piece, where there's a fee. So

Unknown Speaker  46:58  
it's like,

Unknown Speaker  47:00  
well, no, I think the issue isn't that it's too short. The challenge is that oftentimes, all we have are a couple of pieces of you know, capital T true empirical facts. But what we have in addition to that are some really good questions. Yep. Like, that's probably what we ought to be prioritizing the questions instead of the presumed answers. And, you know, the issue I've always had with Vox is the notion of explainer journalism. It's kind of patronizing. Not everything about the world can be explained in the sense that this is the capital T truth about it, in many cases. And what I want when I encounter the story about COVID, in the ocean, is well, what if you're wrong about that? How will you know if you're wrong about that? Like these are the additional kinds of questions that journalists ought to be in the habit of asking, and that, quite frankly, readers, consumers of media of science, journalism, even in a circumstance like this, they ought to be formulating the same kinds of questions. And I think that kind of process developing that sort of muscle dutiful, deliberate skepticism, not cynicism, but skepticism is precisely what's required, within the institutions themselves and amongst the public in order for us to get better results out of all of these disciplines. So that's how you fix it. Let me ask you a question. The critiques that both of you have articulated, I absolutely agree with and and believe that they apply to some journalism, where I'm a little bit more skeptical is the idea of this divide even in broad strokes between a tech mindset and a journalism mindset, partly because there are different problems that these two broad categories are, are attacking and solving different pursuits that they're in. But also, it seems like if you just want to restrict yourself to the realm of Silicon Valley, you see a lot of the same kinds of things going wrong, right? You see theranos happening. You see we work happening, you see lots of things that have gone bankrupt, lots of tech products that have rolled out that didn't work, lots of groupthink, lots of failures, those failures are punished in a different way than they're punished in journalism, or the Punisher journalism. That's the thing is basically, like our perception, okay. Or is it the perceptions? You know, the New York Times is out there marketing themselves as capital T truth. Literally, that is their marketing campaign. The truth, the truth is hard. Yeah, exactly. And all that stuff. Right, exactly. By contrast, VC, like the whole model is based on some percentage of failure. It's, it's fundamentally humbler, in the sense of its approximate, right, is a thesis, it's a bet. It is not a papal pronunciation. It's not you know, from on high. Moreover, taking the examples that you mentioned, would not have been better served.

Unknown Speaker  50:00  
You know, there'd been a lot more investigative journalism into the FDA, then we work? Sure, sure, absolutely. Look, I actually think we work is, you know, kind of got a broad deal of it, they built a product that people liked. And then they were just taken apart by Galloway for clicks on. And you know, look, do they spend a ton of money? Yes. Did you know it's basically been killed by Corona? So, you know, it's one of those things where it's the past just kind of doesn't matter, right. I feel bad for them. But they built a good product that people like, even if they were spendy, in terms of the bottom line, and Galloway actually even mentioned this as a tech entrepreneur, he was like, yeah, it's possible that he could have raised around then made it work post IPO, people could have taken that bet. So I wouldn't even consider that like a huge failure. It was like a useful product or what have you, right. And so the the issue is, we have been misinformed as a society on what is important. And it's very deep, and it goes back more than a month or two. I'll give a few more examples. Yeah, going back five, five or six years, right? The FDA blocked the Apple Watch from having more sensors in it. Okay. That is to say diagnostic grade wearables would be out today. The FDA also attacked 23andme for, um, you know, basically doing at home genomics, right. And especially medical related things, they kind of forced them to nerf it for a while and include only ancestry related sequences and other things got pushed through an FDA process in an alternate world, where that had been met with for Russias investigative journalism into the FDS incentives for blocking this, right, which relate, among other things, regulatory capture, yes, but also related to kind of power and ambition at the FDA. Right? They're not pure pleasure. And so had that happened. There's an alternate universe where today, we had millions of watches, with diagnostic grade sensors in them, okay, which I know exists, by the way I can, I can tell you that, like, technically, I give you a bunch of set, right. And we we've had many more people who have full genome sequences or at least genotypes, okay, and you could have known the pharmacogenomics or immuno genomics of coronavirus, because there's probably some variants that contribute to some people having more severity versus less, right. And so, so that's just like one example, which I'm very familiar with, where, you know, in terms of holding the powerful to account and, and a second role of journalism, right, because there's the informing role, and there's the policing role. Right. And, you know, the most people outside of media think that the role is informing, but the highest prices within media are one for policing, you know, like, impact journalism, you know, cynically, best viewed as a government truncheon impacting someone's head, right, like, right, or like,

Unknown Speaker  52:50  
yeah, yeah, you know, I, I hate.

Unknown Speaker  52:54  
I hate being in the position of defending the media, because I'm much more comfortable.

Unknown Speaker  53:01  
Especially, especially because

Unknown Speaker  53:05  
ideologically, I share a lot of the same perspectives that, you know, you've heard from Camille and others, and, you know, you just articulated yourself with regulatory capture. But let me let me articulate my concern for the way that I see media criticism playing out. I'll use the Iraq War as one example, because the Iraq war came about at this time, when 911 sparked this flowering of blogs on the internet, and you had all of these people who were lawyers and college professors and various professionals, business people, I know, you're gonna say the more bloggers helped cause the war, it was a bottom up thing. It wasn't a top down thing? Well, no, I was just gonna say that the war bloggers oftentimes had incisive critiques about skepticism of the war that was published in the New York Times, or that a professor or they'd say, Oh, this doesn't make sense. But they, they over reacted to what that meant, the fact that there were some weak arguments in the media, the fact that there were some people who were saying no blood for oil, and this is just about dick cheney wanting to enrich his friends, and nothing more. The fact that people made bad critiques did not mean that the other side was correct, and did not even mean that there was a different place where one could have been better informed. And so when I look at the New York Times, I see, you know, an institution that is flawed in various ways. I also see an institution that, you know, survey the world's newspapers and other organizations that try to inform the public about what's going on in real time that try to inform a mass audience, especially about what's going on in real time. And you'd have a hard time doing better than the New York Times or NPR or the BBC, for all their flaws, and my God, there are many of them, and I wish that their biases were different than they are, but it's really hard to build a better thing right? We saw what happened when Tucker Carlson said, I'm going to build a better thing. And what happened was that the only color right. And the alternative to the New York Times, then a lot of people are using is way worse, if you want an educated citizenry, and you could have them just read the New York Times, or just watch anything broadcast on television, any news broadcasts on television, you're way better having people read, we need to improve these institutions, we need to improve the World Health Organization, oh, my God, it's so flawed and corrupt. At the same time, we want to have someone who is a go between between China and whatever they're doing in their labs in the rest of the world. So we have visibility into them. I'm making an argument for conserving the good useful things that we have and not totally eliminating these institutions. Because then all we end up with is people screaming at each other on TV and paying zero penalty for being robbed because they're intentionally trying to be wrong. Like they're intentionally sick, because they don't believe how do we improve on what we have, without throwing up our hands in disgust and throwing the baby, I know you have a response. But I feel like I've made some concrete recommendations about how to move the institution and not destroy it, which is to say that it's a different approach to, to the work of journalism, to the process of delivering the truth to people and not making it capital T truth, as has been underscored a couple of times, but looking for the questions, engaging with the uncertainty, as really the pandemic has forced this to me the other day, I sat down, and I tried to make a list of all the things that we knew about COVID versus all of the things that we don't know about COVID. And very quickly, I found that the list of things that I knew was very, very short. And it was filled with stuff that was anecdotes, in some cases, things that were coming from, like preprint studies. And there's a lot of uncertainty there. And that's okay, accepting the uncertainty. And finding ways to still derive, like useful insights from it is probably the approach that helps to fix the difficulty that these institutions have. And that feels like a concrete recommendation to me. Maybe it's not landing in the way that I'd like it to is, nobody else is excited. I

Unknown Speaker  57:30  
know, I have, first of all, there's a feature set here. I'm just making a list on this, because I've been thinking about this for a while. So related to what I might do next, in fact, so first, Connor, I want to agree with you that it is incumbent upon a critic to build something better. And what that better thing is cannot simply be a reaction against the existing system. Because that leads you eventually in the direction of this polarized kind of society. Where I mean, because here's, here's the thing, something can be true. You know, even if Donald Trump says it's true, even if the New York Times says it's true, it can be true, right? And sure, and something can be false, even if both Trump and a time say it's true, right? These are obvious points. But a critical question to me is given that, how do you build a better mechanism? Yeah. And there's, here's a few features I have for what I think comes next. Okay. So first is open source, reproducible journalism. Okay, so you're basically every story is public, it's on GitHub and git, and pull requests, that is patches to it are encouraged from the crowd, that itself signals that the thing is provisional. And if people really disagree with what that final interpretation is, they can fork it and then, you know, it's like Wikipedia, anybody can kind of fork it right. That's kind of one. Number two, a decentralized media community, rather than a new media company. I think a big problem is if your friend is grading you on the truth, right, as opposed to the world, um, you know, then there's an incentive to kind of have this groupthink II kind of thing, where, okay, if NYT wha in washington post all agree on something, we're good, you know, it's kind of it's like relatively hard to overturn that not impossible, but hard on and so so I think a decentralized media community that has enough financial incentives that individuals can speak up and not all repeat the same thing, right. substack is starting to get there were, you know, an interesting thing about substack. It's opposite of, you know, the current environment is something where, let's say, slate and BuzzFeed and Fox and whatever all basically print the same article right? It's just you know, it's just a different headlines. And there's some strength in numbers. Oh, they're printing it, and they're printing and they're printing and so I can get behind. This, by the way happens in VC as well. Oh, he's in the round. Okay, she's in the round. I'm in the round. You know, like, it's kind of there is there's actually a lot of similarities, by the way, in some ways between venture capitalism and journals. But the bit that is that is different here in this model, at least, is if individuals are making money on substack, then they're incentivized to differentiate from others. It's social distancing, you know, right. Because if you're giving exactly the same interpretation as this guy, well, you've got to find it. You want to kind of differentiate want to have exactly a hot take, but at least some some difference rather than just reprinting the same story as his other guy. Right? Okay, so it's a decentralized media community, then I think the deepest thing is citizen journalism and decentralized factchecking. So let me talk about each of those in turn, citizen journalism means rather than a standing media, of like, you know, the concept like a standing military, right, the founders, the founding fathers were against it, because it was a Praetorian class that was separate from the population and had special powers and could abuse them and so on. Now, we may not get rid of a standing military anytime soon. But I think we can get rid of a standing media, in the sense of, rather than having these arguments over whether the media is the guardian of democracy, or the enemy of the people, just make the media the people by essentially having everybody be a quote, citizen journalist as a duty. And what the reason I say that is, you can decompose an article, right? And many articles these days are wrappers around tweets, those primary sources that you mentioned, Camille, are often individuals posting on social media. And that's who said, what, when? And where. And context often gives you why and how, right. And those are like nuggets of facts, right? And,

Unknown Speaker  1:02:03  
and there's individual accountability there, and so on and so forth. And then you have this wrapper around it. There's two things other kinds of journalism that are like that, as well, by the way, which are sports journalism, which is like a narrative wrapper around a buck score, right. And financial journalism, which is a narrative wrapper around a stream of financial information. Yeah, usually leads me pretty outraged. The market moved 100 points today on this particular news. Well, yeah, sure, maybe. So both sports and financial journalism can be fairly well written by algorithm. Right. But I think that there's something for that, you know, like algorithmic journalism, but that's actually not the overall direction of going. The overall direction going is the idea of an article being a wrapper around tweets, actually think is a form of progress? Because those are individual facts that are linked and reproducible, right? And yeah, you could extend that you can bind the Twitter feed with some of the concepts from crypto. Right now, one of things we take for granted with a Twitter feed, is that twitter.com is not going in free writing those tweets or mutating them. Like I say, twitter.com, you know, that if it's if it's at twitter.com, and hasn't been edited by twitter.com? Sure, yeah. We take that for granted. But if it gets really, really high stakes, it might. It certainly takes people down, they, they rather they suspend accounts, and so on, they delete things. And so, so if it was really high stakes, you know, you can't necessarily assume twitter.com would always be not mutating something. So that's where cryptocurrency and blockchain comes in, where you'd have a time stamped immutable version of like a Twitter feed. And here's the new thing. We already have feeds of real estate prices of weather of, you know, like, everything under the sun, you can you can imagine feeds of these things, okay. And most of those are siloed right now, like the real estate feeds or Zillow, and you know, the movie theater feeds or Box Office Mojo or whatever, right? Not too many movie theaters are gonna be left around, but whatever, right? And what you imagine is essentially, this strip all of these different feeds thousands and eventually millions of feeds of facts, right, that all articles are wrappers around. Uh huh. Okay. And what that does, is it's a more, you know, modest kind of journalism, right? Because there are indisputable facts that you're linking to, or at least, you know, you're showing your work, right. It's reproducible journalism, in the same sense of reproducible research, open source journalism, as opposed to closed source corporate journalism. closed source would basically be, you know, an anonymous source told me this or the New York Times is obtained. Or it's true, because we say it's true, right? Open Source would basically mean you've got links to all of these things, and if you dispute it, fine, but you can see this sources. All right. So there's there's more. The last two bits, I'd say, decentralized factchecking. There's many models for this. But one thing I'm increasingly coming to a conclusion is, I think there has to be financial alignment between the writer and the audience. such that, you know, there's like many prediction market bets. You mentioned about like the take home point, you know, Camille, right. Like, maybe at the bottom of every article, you have two or three bets that the writer is probably making, okay, and you can show that on chain that you yourself, have put 100 bucks into this, I think Coronavirus is going to be a big deal. And I'm putting 100 bucks in on this prediction market. Right. And with aetherium, and with some of the new technologies, augur and so on, you can do prediction markets on basically anything. Okay, hasn't yet gone vertical, but I think this might be one of the contexts. And then the reader could also and here's a very important thing you mentioned the readers actually complicit in this, where, you know, like, with the Iraq War, everybody was for it. And then they were all they'll remember that they were against it. Right? I mean, and and they all blame the writers for that. And then the writers who have some responsibility, but so does a reader. So citizen, right. Um, and the thing about that is, if the reader is also on the hook, to put some dollars in $1 into Coronavirus, a big deal or not, for example, right? It's just a way of keeping score and a bragging rights, where at the end of the year, you get a readout of who matched events better. Okay. And so there's got some more, but keep going.

Unknown Speaker  1:06:44  
Yeah, I am all for these experiments. I have been thinking about the stuff for a long time. So much interesting what you said that I can't possibly address it all. Going back to God, what was that the 2004 election? I think it was, it could have been 2008, I worked with Jay Rosen on this. citizen journalists attempt to wrangle citizen journalists to cover the campaign. And it was fascinating in various ways. A thing I think about a lot when I think of different modes of media, is how educated is the consumer that you are aiming this at. And it's, it's possible that you could design something that is much better for someone that say, the 99th or 95th or 95th percentile of intelligence or reading comprehension or whatever kind of way you would measure this or time that they're able to dedicate to getting the news. And something that would work a lot worse for people who are down around the 50% 50th percentile. And I tend to wonder how much time and effort it is worth making things better for the people at the top. Because I think that the smartest people who have the most time to dedicate to this stuff, actually can puzzle things out from the current news ecosystem decently well, to figure out what to what to pay attention to and what not to know, I somewhat disagree that i think i think you're looking at the current kind of train crash in the US. And a big part of it is due to bad information, not just for I'm not putting it all on the media and so on, right. But a big part of it is due to bad information not over days, or weeks, but or even months, but years and decades. In terms of the MIS prioritization of resources. Mm hmm. There's this one liner that China has a state control press, but America's press Control state. Basically, the premises in China is kind of run as like, like a gigantic national Corporation, where, um, you know, the press, there is sort of doing internal and external comms for China Inc. Okay. And, you know, the way it works is they're basically meant to look, make China look good externally, and then distribute information to citizens and entertainment internally, okay. But it really does fold up to z Jinping who can kind of hire and fire right. By contrast, the US as a press Control state, is in reverse. And you can visualize it not as easy and paying as a CEO, but rather 50,000 journalists who each have a beat. And one guy is writing about the Secretary of the Interior, and somebody else's, you know, looking at the governor of Arizona or something like that. And that person that journalist can get the politician fired, but not vice versa. And that's a critical point, which is if a can get be fired, but not vice versa, and I know it's not like 100% of the journalists can't snap their fingers but they can dig through the garbage they can go after the person etc. So if a can get be fired and not vice versa, then A is in some sense be superior. But this kind of decentralized org chart, right? That's kind of how the US has been running for For a while, where, you know, the press, quote holds the state accountable. Right? If that is the case, well, the state hasn't been held accountable enough, because it hasn't been able to be responsive to the current crisis. And so it actually truly is something where those CEOs, right, the 50,000, decentralized CEOs that are giving instructions, do this, don't do this. You know, for example, this is something which would be good for society, this would be bad for society, this would be completely unacceptable in violation of human rights. This is, you know, the flower of our democracy, blah, blah, blah, right. Like, you know, those kinds of things, which are both priorities as well as moral judgments are how the instructions filter down. And yes, it's so now that's complicated today, what I'm describing is kind of situation circa 1985. See, there's at least two major differences. First, next of those 50,000, decentralized CEOs have crowded in 300 million or 3 billion if you include every social media user, right? And second, these politicians now some of them, like, you know, Trump being the canonical one. But they have started pushing back and actually say, Oh, no, I'm actually more like an executive myself on and they start to criticize the journalists who are criticizing them, which was simply not done in the past. Like, that's true. Well, not by nature. Not politicians are not go after journalists by name. Right? Like, like, they might be against the press. But you But Trump is the first to, like, in recent times to have gone in. Like, for example, you remember, Bush was caught in a hot mic saying, oh, that guy, Major League asshole or something like that?

Unknown Speaker  1:11:35  
Yeah, I vaguely remember that

Unknown Speaker  1:11:36  
vaguely remember that? Right? That was like a big episode where it was? Because it's so a typical, right? Like, if the president wasn't, you know, you're supposed to attack a journalist by name. But every day a journalist could attack the president or the governor of the senator or the congressman by name. It is a very new thing where the politicians have been attacking journalists spending money, pause there go, I think you could find the Wilson administration throwing particular journalists in jail. Yeah, I mean, it's so so so like, you go back far enough. You may be right. But post, let's say, Nixon, the press was prime. But so I guess just just broadly, just so I wrap up quickly, and I'd love to continue this conversation time. One problem is just getting accurate facts. And conveying them to people, as a sort of middleman write about a bunch of subjects that one is not expert in. That's hard enough. If you're doing it for an educated audience, and you have all the time in the world, it's harder Still, if you're aiming for a mass audience, and you're limited in time as you are on the radio, or, by spaces, you are in a physical publication, or by attention span as you are on the internet. And so I just think that a lot of the flaws in the media are due not to ideology, though, there are lots of ideological flaws and not to unprofessionalism. But there's lots of that, but just to the difficulty of the task at hand. And I have yet to see another model that did it better. I am excited about the prospect of building one. But I see lots of models at Mass Communication that performed lots worse than the best journalistic institutions, conceding that we ought to move journalistic institutions in directions that both you and Camille respectively and together, I would like to see them move. And I'm all for that.

Unknown Speaker  1:13:30  
Yeah. So I'm just gonna say one quick thing, which is, I do think new institutions will be built around this gentleman Dynamo argument, like how electrical power came out. Basically, at first factories were built around like this central mechanical Dynamo, which would, gosh, I'm probably butchering this, but there was essentially a spinning thing in the center of factory that, that folks would rotate around, and then a system of gears that would then go and move machines. And this is how it kind of the factory was powered and operated. When electricity became available. At first, they just use electricity to spin that same Dynamo. And eventually, like 10, or 20, or whatever years in, they realized, oh, wait a second, we don't have to put the factory around this Dynamo, we can just lay out all the machines in Rational fashion, and set up assembly lines in a different way. Right. The point is, are less 20 years, what we basically done is taken newspapers and put them online. And yes, there's stuff like linking and and, you know, there's there's, there's snippets, and there's social media, and so on and so forth. But there's still like a mapping, right? The things you can only do digitally. There's actually hasn't been that much of that there's data journalism, right. There's some of the graphics and stuff that MIT does, but there isn't stuff that is truly truly digital only, right? And like cryptographic factchecking or like open source. You know journalism starts again. get you into domain that is like that second round of iteration, if that makes any sense. You know, it's like digital native, as opposed to taking a newspaper and uploading. And I think that's going to end up being like an open source media community, where I mean, you know, people have observed the profit is going out of journalism. That's why there's all these folks with trust funds, and so on, and work in journalism, because there's any money to be made. And if you need some external support, I wish I had a trust. But I know, I'm not saying you. I'm not saying you. But I am saying that there. I mean, this is definitely a thing, right? You have a lot of folks who have inherited the paper itself, in the case that MIT who had a, you know, Father given them a job, and so that's the big thing over there, right. Um, and an alternative is maybe a full time job as a new Trust Fund. And maybe journalism isn't your job, but your job is a chemist, or you're, you know, a automation engineer, or you're a pilot or something like that, you have some domain knowledge and some sphere, frankly, you know, a nurse or something, you know, like, lots of things would actually be relevant, frankly, and, and so you have a full time job, but then you add a supplement of $1,000 a year, but basically writing online a few times per year. That's a model where you have direct, you know, on the ground information, and journalism is no longer a profit center. It's a combination of a duty, you know, to like the public. And it's a it's also something which is massively more decentralized, where citizens are actually taking responsibility for other citizens finding out the truth. Now, I'm not saying that there won't still be folks like yourself, Connor, like, you might make a million dollars a year in this kind of environment, if the subject kind of thing works, right, where you have a large following and whatnot. But it's a continuous thing, as opposed to a separate priesthood Class of, you know, these folks determine what is the truth in these media, corporations, and everybody else has to listen to, yeah, I, I'm skeptical of the idea of domain specific people writing a few times a year, and being able to write things that many people would want to read, there are some who are very talented, who are great writers. But my experience of interviewing domain specific people is that I have to talk to them for an hour to get them to explain it to me relatively sharp person who really wants to listen, in a way that is different. And, yeah, the idea that they're gonna just be able to do it themselves, like I, if you pursue this, I encourage you to try this too. Just go talk to someone in some domain, who is an expert, and try to just get them to explain like a relatively simple thing to you. And you'd be surprised by how hard it is to pull things out of people who do relat like not even very complicated things, you know, and it varies widely. Like I just talked to a bunch of people who run food banks about their COVID related challenges. Yeah, and man, a couple of them, I could just take the tape and put it right on the internet. And people will be like, Oh, this is a compelling voice

Unknown Speaker  1:18:10  
that so it's really good criticism. Actually, that's, that's a good point, Connor. So one thing I will say is the responsive. Okay, how do we do it better? I like that response. Yeah, that's, that's actually, you know, we can meet there because that's something which is a productive kind of area, where, you know, what tech often does is evil, rebuild something. And in the process, it will end up rebuilding parts of what it just, you know, abandoned or whatever, right? You know, for example, Uber called taxis but rebuilt a regulatory system within the taxis in terms of star ratings. Yeah. Right. Like people wanted quality filtering, and so on. Right. And, and so, some of the things you mentioned, are important features that somebody who is in the process of professional journalism, sees, the narrative layer that you add on top is actually a big value add, right? Yeah. And, and, and I agree that that makes it comprehensible. Not everybody's a good communicator. And so identifying and picking out those features, then we figure out how we can do a v2, and it doesn't mean everybody goes out of work, it means that we actually might be able to expand the pie. Because information is financially actionable. Well, this has been fascinating conversation. I had thoughts about how this conversation might go. And somewhere near the end of my list of things was journalism. And I thought maybe we'll say it's been a couple of minutes talking about that. I always mine off way more than I can chew. Yeah. I wanted to talk about some of the lockdowns that are coming to an end, but I think we're gonna have to table that for another time. Unfortunately, I think this will continue for a while so we'll have plenty of opportunity to talk about it. One thing I did want to toss it you quickly going out the door. Maybe this is a bit of a friendship vibe, you'll have an opportunity to respond. Okay, um,

Unknown Speaker  1:19:58  
you mentioned New Zealand. I

Unknown Speaker  1:20:00  
think the last tweet that I saw pinned at the top of your profile was about, you know, the various places that have defeated COVID. Or at least have, you know, come out on the other side of this. You mentioned New Zealand, and I'm probably one of those people who would respond. Well, yeah, New Zealand is really small, it's an island, so they could respond forcefully, you know, in terms of the triage, if there are two kinds of preparedness, there is the serious early preparedness, the stuff that George W. Bush was talking about in 2005, when he said, if we wait for the pandemic to appear, it will be too late to prepare. If we didn't do it, we didn't prepare, almost no one did. But in a circumstance where you're sort of being prepared in this second category, where it's just triage, like a New Zealand is going to excel in a circumstance like that. They've got fewer people to worry about, there's less terrain, they don't have these major city centers, isn't it fair to say that contrasting the response of the United States versus New Zealand, given the wildly different circumstances, it is always struck me as a not entirely instructive comparison, if I'm trying to figure out the right thing to do, there are bigger countries that have gotten under control, like China, there's smaller countries like New Zealand, there's, on you know, other Western democracies, like Austria and Australia. And there's Eastern European countries like Slovakia, there's poor countries like Vietnam, there's, you know, basically, there's, it's like, big and fat, short and tall, like, it's, it's kind of all out there. Right. And, and the US used to be the country that everybody else was supposed to look for, as the model, right? Oh, the US was number one, it was, you know, 1933, you know, Hoover Dam and 1945, you know, like manhattan project in 1968. Is 768 is Apollo. And, and that age is gone. Right? But it's very obvious now that it's gone. Like that was, I'm not saying it was necessarily perfect, or what have you. But that was a time when the US government had technical talent, and it doesn't anymore. And so that, you know, like, the the 1968, American assumed, didn't assume that they were number one, they put in a lot of hard work to be number one. And now what I see is like the can't do society, where there's a lot of, and I'm not saying I'm not, I'm not attacking you on this at all. But I'm just saying that there's a, there's a lot of apologetics of why America can't do this and can't do that. We can't do this. It's authoritarian, we can't do this. It's an island, we can't do this. It's just different, you know, etc, etc. Like, a lot of other people are managing it in the US isn't. And these are all just loser. Apologies.

Unknown Speaker  1:23:01  
And, you know, I'm not.

Unknown Speaker  1:23:05  
No, not you.

Unknown Speaker  1:23:07  
I'm saying I'm saying, I'm saying that, like, like, I see a lot of folks seeing this kind of thing on Twitter. Yeah. And here's the thing they haven't gotten is, yeah, if you're making a bunch of reasons that the USA is bringing up the rear, and the USA is, you know, basically a loser. The rest of the world sees that too. And this is an international event, by the way that has much more in the way of geopolitical ramifications, I think that Americans have taken on board. This is, this is something where you say like, normally there's like a flood or you know, some issues some country in the US sends Marines and, you know, like bags of food and what have you. This is completely absent on the world stage on this, it's basically gotten invaded, and and, frankly, defeated by a virus. And as negotiating the terms of surrender right now, that's like a huge deal, right? Like NATO was just imagine a line, you know, it's like, basically, the viral blitzkrieg just went around it. And other countries are fighting that thing off. And I think that what's going to happen is, the green zones are going to be doing better in the medium to long run economically and health wise. And people are going to regret, like letting the place Go Red. Because when the virus is endemic, it just inhibits commerce in many ways. It's not like an either or framing that is a binary, I think is one of the worst things about our politics. It's like you do you do better on both, if you control it also seems like the long term prestige of the United States, whether or not we are the ones who come up with the vaccine if there is a vaccine, right? seems to me like it can make such a huge difference on perceptions after that point. I think that's right. I think that's right, like basically, um, here's the thing also, even prior to a vaccine, people don't really fully understand this, but the wheat chat, red code yellow code Green code system, right? Essentially, everybody in China pretty much has WeChat. And everybody who has WeChat now has a code as to what their current health statuses. And

Unknown Speaker  1:25:11  
if you're green green code, you can travel, if you got a yellow code, you're under basically the house arrest on and because you've been exposed to a virus and if you've got to read code, then you're off to Central quarantine, so that you don't spread the virus in the community or you've tested positive, and they'll keep you there for a while. And essentially, you've got this gigantic dashboard of the entire country and the social graph, and the and the proximity graph, like who's near who's not necessarily who's friends with who, right, and all these nodes are wiggling around, they're lighted up, green, yellow, and red. And now China is woke to the virus, right, they've got one of the few things that can move faster than the virus, which is the internet. And so they have this viral fire alarm that they've built and installed across the entire country in two months on. And so basically, every time that there's an outbreak of some kind, they can see it lighting up there. And then they quash it with quarantine, you know, maybe very aggressive quarantine. But they're constantly monitoring it right. Now that system is there, they're doing the next level of it now, where in boo Han, they're talking about like, and they've been varying reports to this, some people have said it's only 150,000 to someone said like, it's actually millions, chasing the city of 11 million. And they're testing everybody, which is like taking the entire social graph. And you've got some, you know, green and yellow and red codes. Now you light up the entire social graph, it's like a gigantic industrial project, you drop a ton of flares, light up the social graph, determine where the greens are, where the yellows and the reds are, and any disease reservoirs. That is people who were yellow, right, who had the disease, but you didn't detect them, you just go boom, you isolate, and you contain all of them. And this is a way in which like, truly industrial scale testing, can actually eradicate the virus. Because you just light up every single node, you find it everybody status, and you quarantine all the people who have it, and then they can't pass it on, right. And then you just go city by city like this, it's like a clear and hold strategy for counterinsurgency kind of thing, right? If you can do this. And if China can do that in their home country, then the Belton road becomes a defense pact, where every country that wants to put out a viral fire, China has the export of being able to turn your country to the green zone, to land there, and they have all your citizens. So each gap, and then boom, they just do the exact same thing. Right, that's going to happen that's happening in Iran, right. And that runs a big China ally. Now, because of this, Serbia have been talking about, like China is going to pick up a bunch of pieces on the board from this. Because, you know, it's like a Marshall Plan, like thing. It's like, okay, rebuild your society, get the virus out. Now, currently, the US discourse is stuck in the mold of some people saying, Okay, let me stay at home until you know, forever until a vaccine or just stay at home and no plan infinite lockdown. And other folks, unfortunately, are out there saying, I'll do it with no masks, you know, due to just the flu, or a slightly more sophisticated variant, only old people are at risk, I'm not at risk, you know, I'm young and healthy. Right? And, and actually, you know, like the Asian perspective on this is, this is kind of lunacy, these people are not taking the thing seriously. And it's actually a very serious virus. And it has it has a chance of being like, like something where it is hard to get a vaccine for or read lots of booster shots, because immunity is long lived. And so letting it go out of control is like this crazy kind of thing. But unfortunately, it feels like that's where the US is defaulting to. So So that's my long answer can come in a lot of why I bring up these other countries.

Unknown Speaker  1:28:48  
I've so many things that. Yeah,

Unknown Speaker  1:28:51  
at a minimum, however good the responses in China. And I think that remains to be seen, like the actual effectiveness of all of this, the quality of the tests, there were circumstances. I know, early on, they sent bad tests to Europe or so yeah, exceptionally high rates of failure with respect to their tests, and quite frankly, like their system of government and the Le the extraordinary degree of fraudulence in their entire economy and political system. From my perspective, it all that guarantees that they will fail in important respects that make something like this very hard to pull off. Here's the thing. So I'll say one thing, which is, I'll let you do that. And I'll actually give you the last word on this. So we don't have to push you too long. But because I don't, I love I love that the podcast isn't about winning an argument or even having a debate as much as airing airing these perspectives and allowing folks to sort of sit and think about them, so I don't have any problem. All right. Okay. So here, so I don't even think this is a useful discussion. Here is something that I think is important, at least from my perspective on China, like two things are true at the same time. On the one hand, China will, on his will steal IP, it will. There's the Chinese government itself has admitted that various government entities there have committed fraud and other kinds of things, right. So that's true that there are actors within China, it's a 1.4 billion person, country, as well as the state itself, does a bunch of this stuff. On the other hand, it also ships world class goods, like, you know, the phone in your hand, and much of the stuff in your house, it's like, there's like real things that shipped in over the last 40 years, it built the entire physical plant of China, it became the factory of the world, and it accumulated massive savings. You know, if it had gone into debt, for example, and done the other two, you could argue, okay, it's actually negative, but it's, it's somehow managed to win on all three, right? Like, ship a bunch of goods, build a bunch of stuff at China itself and save a ton of money. Right? So, so the thing that's hard for Americans to get is either they go into Tom Friedman mode, and China's not trying to beat up Tom Friedman, just saying, you know, that's okay. We allow that here.

Unknown Speaker  1:31:03  
Okay, fine.

Unknown Speaker  1:31:04  
Right. So, so I it's amazing, it can do no wrong, etc, or they flip to everything is fake, can't be trusted, it's all BS. The hard thing is, like, both can be true at once. You know, and, and I think that's similar to like the lockdown, kind of, you know, a race, the binary or whatever, you know. So, all good things don't go together. And I don't know how successful China will be either. In the long run, it could be that they're more successful than anyone at fighting this virus, and certain attributes of their society make them more successful, and that certain attributes of our society make us more successful that lots of other things. And I personally would not want to make that trade off. There are certain things that China does that I just think are unacceptable, whether they so

Unknown Speaker  1:31:54  
you know, Live Free or faces.

Unknown Speaker  1:32:00  
Yes, the thing is, I think, I think I think we're gonna, I think we're gonna find that the virus actually, is, it's like a power outage. That's to say, essentially, Western society is explicitly premised on the presence of ubiquitous electrical power. You know, you plug an outlet and it works. Right. It is implicitly premised on the absence of serious infectious disease from public fora. Sure. So what we have now is like, like a national power outage, except for health, the health has gone out in the US. And so every, you know, you wouldn't tell a restaurant just plow through if the if the power had gone out. If the health gone out. It actually is a giant tax and all economic transactions, I think, I think we're gonna find it's actually a very serious thing. Oh, yeah. Modern conversation.

Transcribed by https://otter.ai
