Unknown Speaker  0:00  
So one of the most creative people here, he is the founder of counsel, which is a very successful genomics company. He went on to become a board partner at Andreessen Horowitz. And he is also the CEO of 21. co a Bitcoin company that he is going to tell you about. So without further ado, I would like to introduce you to Balaji.

Unknown Speaker  0:38  
All right, okay. Karen, hear me. Okay, just using this mic. Great. Okay, so I've got a very

Unknown Speaker  0:47  
practical talk, I think,

Unknown Speaker  0:49  
here where,

Unknown Speaker  0:50  
if you listen to it, by the end of it, you will, you know, be on the path to being personally Richard maybe, and getting some digital currency.

Unknown Speaker  0:58  
So just to just to motivate this,

Unknown Speaker  1:01  
kind of what I want to talk about is how we can enable discussion of truly new ideas. And I think there's two ways that you can do that there's an individual solution, which is to maximize your personal runway and a more collective solution, which is to help them build a parallel economy. Let me motivate this, because it's kind of right out there. You know, Michael gave you my background. You know, very briefly, you know, I'd like I taught CS and stats, and Stanford founded genomics company, etc. Our current vehicles at 20 one.co. So you can go there and check that out. Let me just dive into today's talk. So the problem I want to talk about is that today, increasingly, not just in the US, but worldwide, speaking your mind may mean losing your job. And this is a big problem for people who want to explore new ideas, like for example, the concept behind 1517 fun, or other things that are like that, the more innovative and new your thing is, by definition, if it's innovative, and new, it's not yet popular. So it's unpopular, and unpopular, things can sometimes get you fired. And so there's at least two ways that one can buffer against this. There's an individual solution, which is basically become wealthy enough that you essentially have a few money and, you know, then you can just say pay, you know, who cares? And I've actually got a deterministic path to getting there, which I'll get to.

Unknown Speaker  2:18  
And

Unknown Speaker  2:20  
the the other solution is actually to build a parallel economy where you separate your earning name, from your speaking name from your real name. And if those are disaggregated, you know, there's this saying that in computer science answer, every problem is another layer of indirection. Then if your earning name and your speaking name and your real name are all different things, then you can speak under this name. And if somebody attacks you doesn't matter because your earning is uninterrupted. And the real person walks unscathed. So I'll get to that as well. Let's first talk about that first part, let's motivate this right. So there's this guy, Yakov Smirnoff. He does all of these, you know, jokes, they're better in his accent. But one of the jokes goes like this, right? In Soviet Russia, we to freedom of speech, but in America, you have freedom after speech, right? Now, this is a funny joke. But increasingly, an unfunny joke is that, you know, there's less operative and practical freedom of speech in the United States nowadays, because, you know, social media, especially Twitter is just a warzone. And people are just yelling at each other all the time. And, you know, there's been articles on this, you know, but but people here are probably familiar with the concept that Twitter mobs are just now routine, you know, you can lose your job for saying something dumb, or even if someone close to you says something dumb, it's no longer limited to journalists versus public figures. Now, everyone's a journalist, and everyone's a public figure. a concrete example, this just happened a few days ago, is there's a woman who was you know, working two jobs Uber driver and running a small coffee shop. And she's just driving and what happens is not her but her daughter makes some post that's like, you know, critical of the police. And, you know, the details aren't that important. But basically, you know, she's working her second job as an Uber driver, when she sees a notification by the time she, she sees it, it's too late, and it's gone viral, and people are screaming at her on the internet. And, you know, like, basically her coffee shop, you know, it's business has gone away, because a police boycotted, and other people aren't there. And so, you know, that that wasn't even her who said something, it was just somebody in her social network who said something, and it just killed this small coffee shop, and this woman was working two jobs. And that that under, in my view, under no, you know, like model, the role is like, adjust just punishment.

Unknown Speaker  4:25  
And so the issue here is basically that

Unknown Speaker  4:28  
one way of thinking about this is that negative press

Unknown Speaker  4:31  
is an attack on your social network. And that can be you know, from the press, or it can be from a Twitter feed. But, you know, let's say you've got this person over there. Let's say they're a political, they've got some a political friends, they've got others of different hues. And then what happens is, you know, there's some article that comes out, okay, that says, This guy is a bad person, all right. And this periodical is not read by everybody, but it's read by enough nodes in their social network, that now those people are either no longer his friends over here.

Unknown Speaker  4:59  
The tie is weaker. Okay?

Unknown Speaker  5:02  
Now, this is kind of funny looking, you know, as a diagram, but this is exactly what happens when negative press happens. And nowadays, it doesn't even have to be like a credible, you know, like mainstream institution, it can be just like a Twitter feed. So turtle Boy, you know, is actually what blew up that poor woman's coffee shop, right. So everybody is now a journalist and a public figure. And, you know, can just put stuff out there that'll just, you know, harm somebody's reputation. And it's very, very difficult to recover from that. Because once you've been shunned over here, then you don't have a platform, you can't speak to people and so on. Right. So basically, like, you know, one of the most important things to think about is, what periodicals do your friends read? Because those periodicals have power over you, since they can install software into the brains of your social network and make them you know, turn on you or whatever, right? Or, you know, they can also turn them for you, which is a positive version. Okay, so recognizing this is kind of a dynamic. You know, there's a, there's an interesting quote by you know, this guy, Jon Ronson, who wrote, you know, this, this whole book on social media, or public shaming, one of the things he said was quite interesting to my eye, at least he said, You know, there's a there's a journalist that he did a pylon against. And he wrote over here, he was among the first people to learn social media, because Gil always gave my television documentaries, bad reviews, so I tended to keep a vigilant eye on things he could be God for. Okay? So the ideology is often just a smokescreen for kind of personal vendettas. And this is actually very similar to what used to go on in the Soviet Union, and, you know, like the People's Republic of China. So there's this great, you know, man monograph, the practice of denunciation in Stalinist Russia. And so you know, denunciation is, you know, defined for the purpose of this report as an unsolicited written communication from a citizen, about the wrongdoing of another citizen, and others were written manipulatively to get the state to act on behalf of an individual's private agenda. This is, you know, this has a long pedigree in Russian history, right. So, you know, now it's not quite the same as reporting, sometimes the secret police and getting them shot, but it's still pretty bad because they're losing their job, if not their life. So you know, in the US SAR PRC, you lost your life, liberty and property, when your purge in the USA, you aren't killed or jailed and don't lose your bank account, we do lose your job and your private and that's, that's still pretty bad. So, um, you know, the thing is that, you know, when folks are actually interviewed at the other end of these things, it's not just that, you know, they're yelled at online, there's real consequences for them. You know, they're like Ronson interviewed them, they're unemployed, broke and just like confused and traumatized, because, you know, humans are social animals, losing your social networks is a big deal. Okay, so this, is this a problem? It's, you know, why do we want to solve this? Well, one very practical argument as to why you want to solve this is sometimes Yes, many of you know, the kinds of things that people are attacked for on the internet are just stupid things. And they would agree they're stupid, maybe the punishments, just fortunate, but they're stupid things. But once in a while, there's actually something that seems stupid was actually smart. And this is the true but surprising idea. And ideas like that are the core of big new thing. So I'll just give a few examples. So one, you've definitely heard of heliocentrism. Right. So Galileo, you know, in 1633, at least not that long ago, wasn't like 10,000 years ago, but like, you know, wouldn't 400 years ago, you know, the GALILEO fair for like, on the order of 20 years is persecuted, and, you know, eventually died under house arrest, because he was suspect of heresy. Now, had he not pushed the ball forward and taken that hit, you know, taking one for the team, basically, you know, that's the basis for GPS and Satellite Internet space travel, because of Galileo. In part, that's why you can tag your Instagram photos with, you know, being at the coffee shop, right. So, you know, literally, this guy is like locked to death, you know, in a room for death. So you can, you know, tag your friends. So, another another example of this is actually one that's much, much more close in time and really just 1978. Most people don't know that, like capitalism, entrepreneurship was literally punishable by death in China, in the USSR, especially in China until Deng Xiaoping's reforms. And there's great article on this and planet money, you can google this a secret document that transformed China. But essentially, you know, this, this happened in a bunch of different places. But these are the guys who actually lived, most of them got executed. So the farmers in a small Chinese village calls your gang gathered in a mud hut to sign a secret contract, they thought it might get them executed, instead of Quantic transforming China's economy in ways they're still reverberating today.

Unknown Speaker  9:19  
Right.

Unknown Speaker  9:20  
And so their idea was, Hey, you know, like the contract was so risky and such a big deal because it's created at the height of communism in China. Everyone worked on the villages collective farm, there is no personal property. So basically, you know, if people said, you know, what about the teeth in my head, do I own those and No, your teeth belong to the collective that was, you know, the level that you know, communism and gone to there. And so they came up with an idea rather than pharmacy collective each farm would get to farm its own plot of land if a family grew a lot of food that family could keep some of the harvest. Now, that's an obvious idea is you know, yes, you get to keep some of what you own. Your taxation rate is not 100% you know, you keep your teeth and maybe also keep some grain. But, and this is an old idea, but it was such a dangerous idea. In Communist China that the farmers had to gather in secret, they signed a private contract among themselves. And they hid it in the roof of a hut. And it basically said, Hey, if one of us is executed or tortured, for practicing capitalism, then the others will take care of our children, literally at that level, like starting a company punishable by death. Okay. So that was pretty brave of them, you know, really brave. That's an example of an idea that was unpopular, I mean, really unpopular, but a really good idea, because, you know, I can give you 10,000 photos like this. So certainly pollution in China and what have you, but it's become, you know, a first world country in many ways. And extreme poverty has just absolutely plummeted in our lifetime, from like, more than 80% in a subsistence level to like, less than 10%. That's a gigantic achievement. And you know, what other there's many issues with, you know, the Chinese government, I'm not a fan of everything, by any means. But, you know, this is something that has been gotten right, like the introduction of capitalism really did improve human welfare for hundreds of millions of people. It was a good idea that people risked death for that had high upside.

Unknown Speaker  11:05  
And, you know, third example, again, very contemporary, this

Unknown Speaker  11:08  
is Bitcoin its precursors. So one thing most people don't know is that all the previous creators of new currencies were jailed. So the guy who did the, you know, Liberty dollar prison, maybe the next job on a gold currency journey, Bernard Vaughn not house is, you know, there's a physical dollar, he's, he got kept. And the Liberty reserve guy, you know, that guy was actually more of a real criminal. But he was jailed, right? This guy was this guy was really just like an old guy who was just selling some, you know, gold coins, even, to my knowledge, do anything wrong. But Satoshi managed to take this good idea. And he added a bunch of new developments. Obviously, he added, you know, the Byzantine generals breakthrough, that is the Nakamoto consensus algorithm, and a bunch of other things. But one of his most important things he did was he stayed synonymous enough, long enough to let the idea Stanford itself, you know, he put this thing out on the internet stayed synonymous, despite the attempts to unmask him which were unsuccessful. He, he, you know, has stilted all the way through and now Bitcoin and the entire blockchain industry is at 100 70 billion market cap. And it's basically got kind of this freight train like momentum. That's another example of such an unpopular but good idea that the precursors were literally thrown in jail. And he figured out a way around it, which was to go pseudonymous, you know, go Satoshi, get the idea out there, and is now the world's first pseudonymous billionaire, but probably not our last. So those are three examples of really good ideas heliocentrism capitalism and China and Bitcoin that could have had, you know, like, house arrest or death or jail or worse. And so, you know, some

Unknown Speaker  12:42  
of these unpopular ideas are very good.

Unknown Speaker  12:45  
So how do we open up the space to discuss them? In I'm not talking about, you know, just stupid insults that people get, you know, attack from social media, I'm talking about, like, good ideas that are that people get attacked for? How do we open up space to discuss them, and I propose two solutions. The first is an individual solution, which I call maximizing your personal runway. And the second is a collective solution that complements that individual solution. Let's talk about the first one. So, you know, everybody here is living in San Francisco or probably is nearby, actually, not everybody, but a lot.

Unknown Speaker  13:16  
And the thing is that

Unknown Speaker  13:18  
the single most important metric for an individual is your personal runway, right? That is your savings divided by your burn rate.

Unknown Speaker  13:25  
I know it's an extremely anti American concept

Unknown Speaker  13:27  
savings, but

Unknown Speaker  13:30  
it can be measured,

Unknown Speaker  13:31  
okay. And the thing that's very counterintuitive, or that people don't even talk about or think about is that it's easier to cut the denominator by five to 10 x than it is to increase the numerator by five to 10 x, right. So if you've got you know, this is a fake bank account, don't worry, like, but that's, uh, you know, if you've got a, you know, bank account over here, and you've got savings, yes, you can spend, you know, burn, you know, $4,000 a month in San Francisco, or you can work remote and Chiangmai at $800 a month, $900 a month. And that's like basically one, you know, third, one fourth, the cost and therefore, you know, three extra forex runway if you have a job that allows you to work remote that's really good because now you you've got forex runway for the same amount of work, I think is the rest of world has gotten very livable. And so this is a simple deterministic recipe for financial independence.

Unknown Speaker  14:20  
Okay, you know, in 2005

Unknown Speaker  14:24  
Okay, come to Silicon Valley found a company raise VC and in 2017, it's leave Silicon Valley don't find a company don't raise VC. You just need to be willing to move and live like a grad student. You don't need to be a founder or even a smart or lucky crypto investor. And a little more detail basically my my advice to you would be get a remote work job at a big company potentially like a Google or Facebook or you know, or a stable startup like a GitHub, Airbnb. Be on site here if necessary for like a year to prove yourself and then after a year turned down the promotion. If you're actually promoted then you have to be a manager. You have to be local You're a hub. But if you're a spoke, you can be remote. So make yourself indispensable. And after a year, rather than getting promoted, say, I want to work not not to be promoted, but I want to be remote, right?

Unknown Speaker  15:12  
Once you do that,

Unknown Speaker  15:13  
now, you can just cut your burn rate by four or five, six acts, basically, you know, skies are really floors elimite.

Unknown Speaker  15:21  
save tons of money.

Unknown Speaker  15:23  
And now you don't need Angel funding. Okay, because basically, if you if you had a burn rate before, if let's say your incomes 120,000, and you go from a burn rate of like 80 or 90,000, a year to 20,000 a year, every year that you work, you're getting three or four years of runway, so you don't need Angel funding anymore, right? You're now financially independent VA. So congratulations. And there's great tools like Nomad list and teleport, they'll help you do this. And one of the biggest new things over the last 1015 years is the rest of the world because capitalism has gone into China, it's gone to Vietnam, it's gone to all these places, they've become very livable, very nice places to live, especially if all you're doing is sitting in a room, you know, coding all day. And so check out Nomad list, check out teleport, that's a company that, you know, I found that got acquired recently. And these will help you do these kind of compare and contrast and really dig into, you know, where you actually want to live. And think about this as financial independence as personal independence, you should take some of that runway, probably and put it into crypto. And once you're financially independent, you can choose to speak your mind without fear of economic consequences. So like, you know, we downvoted you on social media. And you think this gives you power over me, right? Like, so you're, you're now like invincible, right? So that's pretty cool. Okay, so let's, let's talk about the second thing. So now this is something where this is a longer term thing. It's, I'd say, this is right to do like right

Unknown Speaker  16:41  
now, right?

Unknown Speaker  16:43  
Right. Now you can go and you can move out of the US and you can save, you know, 510 x, okay? But the thing about this is, it's kind of an individual lifestyle, it's, it's something where, you know, yes, you can save money, it's a very good thing to do. But we also want to do something, you know, more collective right. And that's this a longer term project. And this is what we're working on. So a parallel economy. So let me just explain what we're doing at 21. And knit the pieces together. So we have this app between one ko that lets you make money online. After Monday, by the way, it's going to be at earned calm, but just 20 one.co for now. So this lets you make money online. And basically, it's like a newsfeed except

Unknown Speaker  17:17  
it's not distracting. And it's not people yelling at you

Unknown Speaker  17:20  
on Twitter, but you're actually making money, right? So reply to emails, complete tasks, click buttons and make money. And so basically, you you know, you do this, and it's, you know, it's a positive some social network, every single notification you're getting this is something that's good.

Unknown Speaker  17:36  
We've got this token launch coming out in December, where you can

Unknown Speaker  17:39  
also earn for signing up and inviting friends, it turned out co token. And so basically all the folks who invite also, you know, give you song. So it's something we're actually incentivized to invite your whole contact book. And it's basically like this, like a token based social network, which doesn't require an Ico, but it's something where the edges now have currency associated with them. And allows you to earn digital currency rather than mining or buying it and make social networks actually useful. Right? So how does this relate to our previous topic? Well, basically, if this works, then we can start building a parallel economy, where people aren't just liking and tweeting and poking at each other, but they're actually buying things from each other, buying time from each other. In particular, because time is a really good digital good. You can buy, you know, bug bounties or surveys, or emails back and forth. And if this thing really works, and a close close loops that happen at scale, you start to get a parallel economy, right? Once you've got enough people in the network with enough different skills, you can have the equivalent of the butcher buying from the baker buying from the candlestick maker, you start to build a whole parallel ecosystem. And because it's crypto, over time, users can earn synonymously. Right, you can just swap out and start to go Satoshi. Now, if you've got pseudonymous nodes in this network, well, they're now immunized from the social network attacks. Okay, because they're earning synonymously, you know, Wall Street Journal or whatever says this person is now bad, but they can't connect this to this person, right? Like the underlying human isn't, isn't targeted.

Unknown Speaker  19:03  
And so as such, your job doesn't go away,

Unknown Speaker  19:06  
they've targeted a speaking name, here's your earning name, they're two different things, unless they can map them together, which is

Unknown Speaker  19:11  
doxxing. And

Unknown Speaker  19:12  
not not that easy to do, necessarily. Your your earning name, your speaking name, your real name can all be distinct

Unknown Speaker  19:18  
things. Now,

Unknown Speaker  19:20  
you have to be clear, I recognize that that's a journey of 1000 miles, it's going to take a while to get there.

Unknown Speaker  19:24  
But if you want to join us,

Unknown Speaker  19:25  
you know, go and try, you know, 21 and you know, you can you can see what we've got today. So just in summary, speaking your mind today can have economic penalties, the crowd can gang up on you. As an individual solution. I propose that you can maximize your personal runway by working remote and moving overseas, cutting this denominator B by you

Unknown Speaker  19:45  
know, five x or more.

Unknown Speaker  19:48  
And as a group solution help us build this parallel economy of 21. We're eventually in five or 10 years, people can start earning synonymously and becoming more and more immune to social network

Unknown Speaker  19:57  
attacks. Thank you

Transcribed by https://otter.ai
