Balaji Srinivasan  0:04  
I'm going to talk to you guys about something that I've been thinking about for some time and pulling to some string. Why don't we just, you know, go right ahead. So talk per se is something I'm calling the pseudonymous economy. On first, I'm going to define what it is and motivate it, and then you know why we should build it, and then talk about how we might go about doing that. So just as motivation, first talk about, you know, like, What is pseudonymity? Like, what is the tsunami economy? And, and then, you know, go from there. So, first just to define terms, there's a difference between a real name, which is something you'd use, for example, on Facebook, a pseudonym, which you'd use on Reddit, or Twitter, or an antonym, like on 4chan. And pseudonyms are interesting, because they're not your real name, but they are persistent. You can build up reputation on them, for example, you can build up twitter followers or a Reddit reputation. The interesting thing about, you know, pseudonymity, is I think of it as being as important as decentralization, that is to say, you know, with Satoshi, you know, the Bitcoin network was decentralized, so you couldn't shut it down. But because Satoshi was also synonymous, you can identify the person, before Bitcoin managed to scale and get to escape velocity. So you know, there's this question shouldn't Satoshi be thrown in jail? It's an idle question, because without the person you have no GPS location, you can't send the drones, okay. So, you know, one thing I think a lot about is that pseudonymity is a continuum. And you can think of it with something called 33 bits. So the idea is that there's about 7 billion people in the world, and to 33rd is about 8 billion. So with 33 independent bits of information, you can fully D anonymize somebody. What that also means is that if you have 10 bits of uncertainty about somebody, they're within a set of to the 10th, or about 1000 people, if you have 20 bits, it's about two, the twins are about a million people. So you can have something that's in between, like total, you know, identify identification and total anonymity among 7 billion people. And so it's an important concept that that pseudonym the enemy, it's a continuum. So, you know, the the thing about tsunami is, it's already mainstream. If you're on Twitter the other day, you probably saw sudol ron ron Romney. And so romney's got a systems account comi has got to sit on account. Millions of people on Reddit have pseudonymous accounts, if you heard the term Finster, and renta, lots of kids these days, they set up search resistant identities, with Instagram accounts under fake names, or their their real self, and Instagram accounts under their real name or their fake self, you know, the fake self is posing and prom, you know, regalia or in a suit and tie with mom and dad. So pseudonymity is actually a pretty big deal. It's already at scale, but it's mainly said on this communication rather than synonymous transaction. So, um, you know, when, when I when I think about where society is going, I think tsunami is a symptom is a big part of it. So every major application, whether it's Google, Facebook, Twitter, etc, now has multiple account support, where you can switch in between accounts, those initially developed for corporations so that you could switch between your personal account in the corporate account to run ads. But now it's used very frequently by people, they'll talk about their mean account their old accounts, etc. Another trend is an employment law, there's many questions you're not about to a lot to ask somebody on. I think over time, that plus encryption, plus the fact that you can be mobbed with your real name on the internet. These are things that start to lead to people using their pseudonyms much more frequently, not just for communication, but for transaction. So okay, so second part is, what is what is, you know, why would you why we actually want to build a suit on scummy? So there's this guy who is more famous in the 80s guy named Yakov Smirnoff any of this one liner, which was like, you know, in Soviet Russia, we have freedom of speech in America, you have freedom after speech. And that's maybe less true today, where you know, anything you say, if you if you get it wrong, a Twitter mob can come and descend on you. And so, so practical freedom of speech involves freedom after speech, where the retaliation is not to such an extent that it has what people would call a chilling effect, you know, upon the speech and chilling effect is a legal term but you know, you can you know, that no term is like a hecklers veto. There's, there's things that don't necessarily mean the law gets involved, but that, you know, is basically practical censorship. And one important concept, the way I think about mechanistically, the way that you know, these chilling effects work is if there's let's say, you know, you've got a social network and you've got folks with different you know, partisan political stripes there. And there's an article in a partisan outlet which goes in denounces you in this case in the Wall Street Journal. Then what happens is, once this person is known to be bad, all the people who read and respect that outlet they get like a software update push their brains

Their eyes glow red. Okay, and now this guy is a bad person. And so this investor might, you know, not not invest in this employee might quit, and this person might just do the contractually minimum, obligated minimum, okay? The other people don't care because they don't read this particular periodical. But this is the fashion in which negative press actually causes damage to you. It's like a mortar that lands in your social network neighborhood. And free is ties. The opposite of this is if you announce a funding announcement or some positive news, then people will come closer, new social network relationships will get developed people will text you, hey, let's catch up, etc. So so both positive negative press have this effect, they have an effect on your social network neighborhood. And the reason that's really interesting is, once we understand this mechanistically that, you know, negative press affects your social relationships, we can think about what the effect of pseudonymity is, because if you, you know, have a negative article in your pseudonym, something is appearing on sushi Nakamoto. Even if these people go and read that, it doesn't matter, because they don't know that this person is Satoshi there's no action, they're practically immune, they have freedom after speech, okay, the, the pseudonym can be surrounded by all kinds of negative adjectives, but the person walks unscathed. Okay? So so this is basically something that prevents what I call social network supply chain disruptions. And assuming that you've got a physical supply chain, where you, you have a commodity that you need to build your iPhones or whatever, you have a social network supply chain, which is your lead investor, your key employees, your key customers, etc. You don't want social network supply chain disruptions. And one approach to that is to actually, you know, use pseudonymity. So going in little more detail, you know, how might this actually work? How might you use pseudonymity. So a very important concept that I think a lot about is that if you're if your bank account is your store of wealth, your real name is your store reputation. So you know, over time you build up your bank balance, and you can look at it here, over time, as one dimension of reputation, you build your Twitter followers, and you can look at them there. There's other measures as well that are less tangible, but social media makes at least some parts of reputation quantifiable. An important point is that, well, you need a pin to go and debit from your bank account, anybody can debit from your reputation by just swarming you on social media, so you have control over your finances in a way that you don't over your reputation. Okay, so one, one approach to this one approach to solving this is to start factoring out so that you earn under one name, speak under another and use your real name only on official forums, like a like a social security number. Okay? And this is actually similar to the concept of AWS bastions, if you're familiar with that, you don't just log in directly to a production machine, you log into, you know, a bastion, and then from that into a production machine. It's also similar to HD wallets in crypto, where, you know, you don't just keep all of your balance in one account. And if you think about it, it's similar to many other things where you know, you don't keep all your eggs in one basket, you have a degree of diversification. So in this fashion, you can intentionally diversify your reputation across different names. And of course, you can use multiple different earning names, multiple different speaking names, just like you know, use different credit cards for different forms, or whatever, you know, Apple can do that privacy comm can do that. And in this fashion, you have basically the ability to speak under this name, and it doesn't affect your earning. And then your real name is just is just something that you know, you actually keep kind of private. Okay. And again, this behavior is already is basically already there, the speaking name, and the real name exists. It's this earning name that hasn't yet become mainstream, and it's crypto that allows you to earn with things like you know, z cash, or you know, just doing contract programming for z cash. But, but I think this is going to come mainstream over the 2020s. So, um, you know, one, one motivating way of thinking about this is, if we can transfer wealth to a pseudonym, okay, so you've got 100,000 in your bank account, using you know, z cash, for example, by a coin base, or what have you intent, okay, or any other exchange. So, using z cash or Coinbase, you can go and take money, and move some of that money to a pseudonym over here. An interesting question is, could we do the same thing for reputation? That is, if you've got an account, you've got certain number of followers over here, can you set up an alt account that has some subset of those followers, preserving some of the reputation on you know, without, like, like, you know, totally starting from scratch. And just to, you know, kind of think about that a little more detail. We, we let's just focus on Twitter as a kind of a case study for like a particular quantifiable kind of reputation. You can generalize these concepts from there, but I'm going to ask you to sort of imagine is a crypto version of Twitter where certain parts of the backend are decentralized. It's kind of thing you might be able to build with block shack, for example, and as I'll go through and sketch this, you'll see the pieces that you need to build to make this happen. Okay.

So the one way of quantifying that our intuition is, we have You know, a profile over here. And by default, we have zero percent pseudonymity. And all of our distribution, all our reputation all our followers, we can set up a new pseudonymous account over here, and it has 100% pseudonymity. It could be one of anybody on Twitter, but it starts with with zero followers. And so an interesting question is, is there some intermediate over here we are, we can give up, you know, some of our distribution, but retain some pseudonymity. So that we're not totally starting from scratch in the same way we can transfer some wealth to a pseudonym can be transferred some reputation to a pseudonym. And, you know, just again, like, well, while this x is quantify in terms of number of followers, this x is quantified in terms of number of bits, the 33 bits. Okay? So, um, that's a question can we can we trade off some pseudonymity for some distribution, and there's a, here's a naive approach, okay. And I'll give this naive approach. And then we can make it more sophisticated. So let's say, you know, this is you your mark, and you've got, you know, these various followers in your social network neighborhood. And this is a so called adjacency matrix, where, you know, that's one because this person follows him and this person follows him and this person follows him and so on, those are four inbound links, and then, you know, this lady is following that person. And so that's, that's an edge over there. Now, if we set up a pseudonym over here that has the exact same link structure, basically, you've copied over all your followers, the matrix gets updated, and it's got essentially the same row over here. Mark himself is not following his own pseudonym, but all the followers are the same. The issue with this approach is that anybody who analyzes this, so this was the actual full network looks like by anybody who analyzes this graph, who can actually go and scrape the back end and do the criminal blockchain analytics on it will find that these two vectors of followers are the same. And basically, that you totally D anonymized this, this vector is exactly the same as this one. So you have effectively zero bits of anonymity. Now, it's not necessarily the case that every vector like this is totally unique, but in practice, it's likely to be and so just naively copying over all of your followers to a pseudonym will drop your anonymity typically. Alright, so can we do something else? So can we transfer at a stations rather than, than everything? So, so this is a key concept, rather than pulling over all your followers to pseudonym, what if we transfer some digest some fungible digest of that. So as an example, if we go back to you know, your Twitter profile, you've got various fields on there, one of them is like a verification field, which Twitter itself the platform puts in another are fields like your name, location by which you yourself attest to. And then there's things like your followers, your likes our teas, which are attested to by third party. So these are three different kinds of data on your on your profile. And this is the least trustworthy in the middle, the the first and the third are the ones that are the hardest to fake, it's hard to get Twitter to verify, it's hard to get, you know, fake likes, or RTS or whatever, okay, or at least harder. A key concept is we can use something like, you know, Zika snarks, basically a zero knowledge construction, and there's a bunch of innovation in this area happening if you're following it, to move the fact that this user was verified to their pseudonym. And now you actually get a checkmark over here, and you've moved one bit of information over now, you're actually moving more than one bit, because one way of thinking about it is, there's 330 million total ma use on Twitter, there's 330 k verified. And so by moving that information that this profile was verified over to the pseudonym, you have given up basically about 10 bits of anonymity. Okay, but that's okay, because you're still one out of 330,000. So it's actually still fairly anonymous. So this is cool, we've started actually quantify the degree to which you're, you're trading things off by using this quantification of pseudonymity. Okay, let's go a little bit further. So, we can do multiple stations, we don't just have to port to a verification, we could Porter the fact that okay, you have more than hundred thousand followers, your, your followed by a jack and so on. And every such verification that we pored over will cause a further reduction in the set of people that you could be from 330,000 verified to, you know, maybe 100,000 that also have 100 k followers to 2000. They're also followed by jack and you can decide how much anonymity is starting to get, you know, loss of anonymity is starting to get too close for comfort. Okay. So, so this is interesting, but there's an important thing, which is okay, so you now set up this profile, it might have verification and these other kinds of fields on it, so it's more legit. You've ported over some aspects of your reputation, but your followers haven't yet pointed. So how do we fix that? So we introduced the second concept, which is what I call auto follow. And the idea here is again, this would be what you configure in your kind of

v2 Twitter, your crypto Twitter, folks in in the social network would basically have a configuration where they say Hey, I'm going to auto follow any verified user, or an auto follow anybody with more than hundred k followers or 10 k followers rather, auto follow anybody who, you know, jack follows and you know, set up this way. And as you move out of stations over like you move the is verify that station, well these three folks ought to follow you. And so in general, let's say of your 700 k initial followers, maybe 150 k accounts auto follow verified. So now what you can do is you can compute prior to publishing that at a station, okay, I'm giving up this much anonymity, but I'm gaining this much distribution based on the published auto follow on distribution. So it's sort of like if you if that auto follow is out there publicly and you can tell, you know, if this data structure, this, this table is actually also visible, you can tell how many people will follow you if you make this adaptation, okay, so you managed to pull over some reputation. This is not like, you know, extremely complicated math or anything like that. But it's just having a few data structures be be public that aren't right now. Okay. So now if we can do that, we we have a mechanism to set up an account, which is intermediate on it has, it's one out of 330,000 verified, so it has less pseudonymity. But it has 150,000 followers rather than 700,000. But it's more than zero. So we've actually got an intermediate on the spectrum, we figured out at least a sketch of a way to transfer reputation, some reputation to a pseudonym, okay. And the reduction in empty over here that comes from porting over the verification, and the gain and followers comes from the auto followers of the verified account. Okay. Now on what's cool about this is, this allows us to bootstrap multiple names, you can just one click, set up a new account, move over some reputation. And just like you can move over some z cache to it, you can start speaking. So this radically increases the utility of a pseudonym. And while I've talked about the concept of Twitter, you can use this in the context of LinkedIn, for example, I know JavaScript, okay. And I've got, you know, more than 50 people who have validated that I know JavaScript, that's the kind of at a station that you can port over to a pseudonym. And you can put multiple, such as stations to signal that it's actually suitable for work, right, that it has been valid, you know, validated or verified in this fashion, while still blending in and still maintaining, you know, practical anonymity, because you're one of, you know, 500,000 people that that is qualified for JavaScript. Okay. So now, you know, if you've heard the physicists saying, assume spherical cow, I'm assuming a crypto Twitter here, which has certain primitives of the current Twitter doesn't, but it's a bit of an iterative process, you know, try to understand, okay, what would the sudano ceremony look like? What would the constructs on such a trigger need to be? And I think you might be able to build something like so with blockstack or with other crypto tools that are that have been coming out. Okay, so just to summarize, on we talked about, you know, what is pseudonymity? It's not a real name, and it's not being anonymous, which is often conflated with, it's a persistent pseudonym, where you can gain reputation that's not mapped back to your real name. And it's also not just one off like an anonymous account. We talked about why have a pseudonymous economy? And the answer is that if there's negative press or you're getting attacked on social media or something like that, it doesn't matter because your student is taking all the damage, the person can walk around, and you know, there's no connection. Economically, your social network supply chain is not disrupted. How might it work? As I mentioned, you can factor out your name, not just into your your alt account and main account, if you're speaking in your real name, the major new thing we want to set up really as an earning name and also a speaking name with more reputation. And as a construct a mechanism a sketch of how we might build it on this idea of basically setting up something that's intermediate where it doesn't have all of your distribution. And it's not completely anonymous, but it has partial anonymity. Good enough for most purposes, one of 300,000 people, and it has a partial amount of your distribution if auto follows setup. And so in this fashion, kind of try to motivate why we build a pseudo economy and how we might do so. Okay, that's it. Thank you very much.

Transcribed by https://otter.ai
