Balaji Srinivasan  0:02  
To the Bitcoin podcast

Unknown Speaker  0:06  
Hi there from Taipei, How are y'all? How's your week going? Welcome to the what Bitcoin did podcast which is brought to you by the mighty mighty krakken the most trusted place to buy and sell Bitcoin. I'm your host, Peter McCormick. And today I've got part two of my interview with Balaji for innovation. But before that, I've got a message from my show sponsors. So today's show is brought to you by my new sponsor my bookie. And Sunday night football's back. How did your team do? Who was it your support? Let's get some banter going up on Twitter. Let's talk about it. I've been giving Bobby some stick about the Jets because they still suck. And I've been celebrating a win by my team the Rams who are clearly going to win the Super Bowl. Yes, I love football. I love your football. I love my football. I love them both. And when my bookie you can bet on every single NFL game and they've got live in game betting. And guess what else? They accept Bitcoin, because they are badasses. And of course, I'm only going to work with a bookie that accepts Bitcoin, because I love Bitcoin, almost as much as I love football. And I would only recommend a service to my listeners that I trust. And with my bookie, it's always the right play, you bet, you win, and they pay. And for you listeners of my show, they've got a special offer, you can earn up to $1,000 first deposit bonus, you can double your first deposit, you just need to use the promo code w Bitcoin to activate this offer. So check it out at my bookie.ag which is m yboke.ag. And do not forget to use the promo code w Bitcoin when creating your account. Also, today's show is brought to you by my friends drop it down, I really do want to tell you about the new release, which is coming soon. I really want to but they're gonna kick my ass if I do. But I'm going to try and pressure them to let me announce it because it's so cool. I'm also going to be heading out to Ohio in October to hang out with them as they've got this cool event coming up that they want me to be part of. And hopefully I'll get to meet some of you Buckeyes out there. And drop it is my favorite mobile app for Bitcoin. I love them because of the innovation they've delivered with Bitcoin mobile wallets. Yes, you can paste an address or use a QR code like all other bitcoin wallets. But we drop it you can text Bitcoin. And you can also tweet Bitcoin. It is like a Venmo. For Bitcoin, you got to check it out. It's available for the iPhone and Android, just head over to drop bit dot app, which is Dr. O p bi T dot app. Okay, so on to part two of my interview with Balaji. And if you didn't listen to the first part, I recommend you go back and you check that out first, because we do cover a whole bunch of interesting topics which lead on to this, where we were discussing all these fascinating things around virtual worlds AI in politics, and how this might change how people may be able to work without a visa or how people might consider geography. So that's very cool. But with this show, we finally get onto some Bitcoin. So it was cool, because Balaji explains what life was like a coin base for me, which is I definitely wanted to hear about, and he talks about the.com acquisition. And I also asked Balaji, you know, does Coinbase hate Bitcoin? many would argue that Coinbase was on the wrong side of history regarding the New York agreement in 2017. And people also took issue with how long it took to implement segway can. And the question on promotion of all coins? You know, is it something that they must do to be competitive in the market? Or is it irresponsible? And someone who is a big fan of velocities, far out thoughts and the previous interviews I've seen with him where he talks about tech, I do wonder why he openly supports all coin projects. So I have to put this to him as someone who's so smart. Why does he support these projects, in light of so many people against them? We also get into an comms integration with Coinbase I questioned whether it's dangerous for newcomers to crypto currency is informing them of the technical merits of a project but not the financial risk of betting on an overseas Bitcoin negligent. So I do hope you enjoy this interview. I hope you enjoyed the first part. It was great to get Balaji on the so much more I could cover with him. So I will definitely get him on again. But if you do have any questions about it, you know, you can reach out to me my email addresses Hello at what Bitcoin did calm. And by the time you listen to this, I'll be in Riga. I'll be heading there from Taipei, I'll be heading out for the Baltic honey badger conference, which I'm emceeing. I'll also have in the bag for more interviews recorded for my new podcast defiance, which launches at the start of October. After that, I'm heading out to Wyoming for Caitlin Long's wire hackathon from the 19th to the 22nd December I'm going to be heading out to Colorado Springs on September the 23rd to the 25th. I'm also going to be out in Ohio in October for the drop event and then heading to LA for cis so it's super busy, so much happening. Hope to get to meet a bunch of you out at these events. We do any questions do reach out to me My email address is Hello What Bitcoin do.com.

Unknown Speaker  4:51  
I'm going to take us back to the.com thing Sure, okay, because that's a good starting point for the crypto for a couple of reasons. Firstly, for understanding because it was Bitcoin Yes. Which was very interesting. And by the way, I was a big fan of earned.com when I first used it, but I think it misses a couple of things. Sure. I think sometimes it's really way too cheap to contact somebody. Yep. I think $20 to contact is not enough. Yep. I actually disincentivized to contact you through that. I want you to charge me $250 Hmm. Because then if it's important, I'm going to pay it. And also, I know you're going to reply, I've used it a few times and had people will not reply crappy replies, right. I also think replies need to be scored. Absolutely. And with reviews,

Balaji Srinivasan  5:33  
all this stuff was actually on our roadmap.

Unknown Speaker  5:35  
Yeah, everything you're talking about yet, but I think I really like and I think there should be people on there who should be $10,000 to contact sure. But anyway, so it's an interesting point. Also, with the sale to coin base, I'm not going to get into the kind of valuation but I did look at the time. But one of the things I am thinking about is that I can see this kind of vision of education. And, you know, when we talked about VR, the way to earn you know, earn money as an through crypto. So I'm seeing this kind of potential infrastructure for a future world of earning. So I do I do find that all interesting. But what I want to start with is that it wants Bitcoin only. Why is that? And where are your views right now? Um, let's start with Bitcoin.

Balaji Srinivasan  6:19  
Okay, let me let me actually can take one of your things. Yep. So Emily, Joy actually gave an interview to the block, like a like a month or two ago, maybe two months ago, maybe June, which you can look at which she talks about earned and so on. And she mentioned, and I think I can buttresses there an acquisition is already paid for itself multiple times over. And the reason is, some of these deals have actually been announced publicly. But for example, the stellar deal with with Coinbase earn was a billion xlm. Right, which is worth more than 100 million dollars in its own.

Unknown Speaker  6:49  
Right. But that deal wasn't in place when it was sold. No, no, what I mean is,

Balaji Srinivasan  6:53  
yeah, post acquisition, the integration of the thing has created more value for Coinbase, then like, but that's post rationalizing? No, those those actually. So that was the rationale for the deal. Lots of times whenever you sell or acquire a company, and Marc Andreessen has written about this as well, you're calculating the value based on that startup integrated with the bigger companies distribution. Yep. Right. So you know, earn on a standalone basis had several hundred thousand users, like, somewhere between Africa the exact number but like, short of a million, but like several hundred thousand users is actually doing quite well. And Coinbase had like 30 million users. So if we plug some of the same dynamics, like some of the features of earn into Coinbase, we had a few different models, which said, Hey, we could actually make a lot of money very quickly or generate a lot of value. So post integration, if you go to Coinbase comm fronts. I Sharon, did you see what we did with maker dye? So No, I didn't. Okay, well, I know you're not you don't follow like the either space or what have you. But just go to like, maker scan.io. Just for a second, if you look at that I'm not connected on the net. don't check it out with you. Alright, so let's take a look at afterwards. And basically, one coin base earn campaign resulted in more decentralized loans being opened in a few days in an entire year beforehand, right. But so what basically happened with quinby cern is we took one feature of urn, which was like the tutorial aspects. And so there's like, tons of other aspects of it. Like as you talk, which we'll come back to, we took one feature, and we integrate it into Coinbase. And we made it possible to not just buy crypto but to earn crypto. And over the last year, we closed I think we've disclosed about 100 million, but total closes more than $300 million worth of deals for customers. And I know that's much more than that since I've left, right? So So what does that mean? That means that the customer can click a button, right? Watch tutorial, do a task and earn a cryptocurrency without a credit card. In any country.

Unknown Speaker  8:39  
Right? Good. you so many times, we're gonna hit different points that it's like, you know, one of my questions is, does a coin base retail customer need to learn what zero x is for?

Balaji Srinivasan  8:48  
I think so. I mean, like, Well, here's, why is any one of these? First of all, one of the biggest requests that we got at Coinbase was what do all these coins do? Right, like, because, you know, obviously, they're not taught in K through 12. They're not taught in college, um, you know, to be educated about them. There's all these, you know, what we would call shills, you know, out there pumping stuff, and they'll say everything is great. And, you know, blockchain is a confusing area, it's decentralized and blah, blah. So there's a, there's a huge desire, one of our most important customer service requests was what the heck do all these things do? Right? And often they'd say, like, I bought some Bitcoin. What else is interesting in the space What else should I look at?

Unknown Speaker  9:29  
So nodding

Balaji Srinivasan  9:31  
Okay, let me come back to that actually, and I'll make I'll make actually, I think an argument on that

Unknown Speaker  9:36  
Yeah, come prepared. Sure.

Balaji Srinivasan  9:38  
So so let me let me analyze earn Coinbase earn at least and then earn calm standalone this coin base earn can be certain. I think it suited three different groups of person. So first, let's say you're starting a new coin, right? Or you've got a you've got a scaled existing coin, you're you're you're running stellar or z cash or something for such a central person if they want to acquire customers, right? They go to Google or Facebook? Well, first, they need to liquidate their current crypto in order to buy USD, which takes a price. Number one second, Google and Facebook often don't even take crypto companies or ads. And in third, what ad you're gonna, you're gonna run is basically going to send someone to an exchange to buy that crypto usually write or to use it somehow. So essentially, it's a very inefficient, you know, kind of loop, which you may not even be able to run a tank surprise, you may not be able to run the campaign, and you send them to something like Coinbase. Anyway, by contrast, with Coinbase, earn, you take 1,000,010 million 50 million 100 million dollars of their crypto, and the channel is crypto where and the customer values that crypto at par value is at $1. Or, frankly, more than $1. Because I think it can go up potentially. Right? Maybe right? And and some of them do you know, depending on the timeframe or whatever, right? So this is something where you can put in a million bucks and acquire a million users and train them in your crypto. And so couldn't be certain has become the largest scale customer acquisition channel for crypto. Right? All these crypto projects are pouring in millions of dollars to basically educate Coinbase customers. And they're taking their let's call it Monopoly money, right? What would be Monopoly money, and they're using it and they're, they're expanding the audience, they've got a million people who've got that coin, who have learned how to use that coin, who used it for decentralized exchange or alone, the central private transaction, you know, they've set up a smart contract or whatever. So so there's a real market demand on this from the from the coin side, right from the new coin side, from the user side, it is got the highest NPS of any coin base product, right. Like it's like more than Apple NPS. We publish some of the stats on that. And the reason for that is people are getting free money. Right? And there, we've got I think, pretty hype, isn't

Unknown Speaker  11:45  
that the wrong incentive? Right? Is it and have Coinbase published the stats on whether people hold or do they just dump these

Balaji Srinivasan  11:51  
figures? Actually, it's a great question. And I think we have published the stats, but I think I can tell you, you know, so because we were looking, we're monitoring that very closely, right. And for typical campaign, it'll be something like 75%, hold 10% sell, and the remaining 15% buy much more. Right? And the thing is, when they sell, they can only sell one or five or $10 worth, when they buy they can buy like $1,000 worth, but we're gonna get into the ethics now.

Unknown Speaker  12:19  
Could we argue that that's irresponsible as well? Because one Okay, so one of the problems I sure understand this whole world, you know, I'm, I'm not from Silicon Valley, in England, yep. I've got no experience in investment. I find it fascinating. I do I find looking at it fascinating. But a couple of things that I've noticed that feel unhealthy, is that we are turning a bunch of people potentially into VCs.

Balaji Srinivasan  12:45  
Ah, I'm a huge fan of this, but I'll come back to why I potentially Yeah,

Unknown Speaker  12:49  
I like the concept. But we're turning them into VCs in a specific sector, where most people will lose money. And most people have lost money. We are yet to see any breakout long term viable blockchain projects outside of Bitcoin. Now, I know you might argue some back Yeah, but I'm, I'm a great tweet yesterday. Yep, saw somebody said, with Bitcoin, you buy the dip, which coins you sell the pump. So I still think a lot of queens are are seeing negative performance against Bitcoin, even as bitcoins it, arguably another bull market. But anyway, we're potentially creating VCs out of a bunch of retail investors. But for most of these projects, they aren't getting the benefits of the VCs. And they're investing in projects that haven't hit product market fit. Because essentially, Jill Carlson put it to me, she said an Ico when you do an Ico, you're essentially doing your seed round and your IPO at the same time. Yep, you get one chance at fundraising. It's not strictly true, because some people get it gets a chance to invest early. Usually VCs get their coin discounts. By the time retail gets to invest. While there might be a short term pump, there's often a dump. So we're turning these people into VCs, but they're not getting the benefits of the VCs, and they don't have the experience of the VCs. And I spoke to a lot of people have lost a lot of money. So I worry that this is unhealthy. Okay, yeah. And potentially irresponsible. That's what that's why I worry.

Balaji Srinivasan  14:22  
Great. Okay, so let me let me first a lot of stuff there. Yeah, no, sorry. But But actually, I think I've answered too much of that early. So I've got a thesis on much of that. But let me come all the way actually up to root right, which is, from the perspective of a like somebody who's very sympathetic actually to Bitcoin maximalism. I'm very sympathetic to it. Why have any other coin besides Bitcoin, right? Because like, that's like a root question. And here's my my take on it for what it's worth. I do believe we need to digital gold. Right. And I think it should be on its own chain. And I think that the by fighting this incredible war, at one megabyte you If one megabyte itself, when can you know, like debate or argue about that meant that if that level of war was fought at one megabyte, then 21 million is truly sacrosanct. Right? Like, you know, that is to say, by by fighting over here, you you make if this is that taboo, then 21 million is even more taboo, right? You don't, you don't change that ever, right? And so there's, there's like, a rationality to irrationality, if that makes any sense, right. And so so I think that having that immutable digital gold has the basis for this entire crypto economy for something that the government can't see is that can inflate can't print. I think I've been one of the earliest I mean, not not certainly not the earliest, but one of the earliest advocates in Silicon Valley and in tech got a lot of high net worth people into it. evangelists it held large amounts. You know, I taught this class in 2013 on Bitcoin among other things, and got a lot of people into it. So So I've always been pro Bitcoin always will be pro Bitcoin, right? So one of those, put that down. Okay. Now, why do I think that there's more to life than just digital gold? Well, I think that it's like gear change on a bicycle, right? If you have like a brick of gold, right? Bitcoin is not going to leave aside lightning for right now. Bitcoin is not going to significantly increase its TPS anytime soon, right. And so the smart thing to do is buy and hold puts a minimum amount of traffic on chain. But there's other things you want to do in an economy, right? You want to their stocks, there's bonds, there's commodities, there's cash, right? And there's other things that are like video game items, and collectibles, and, and all this other type stuff. And these things are transactions that just have different workloads, right, different frequencies of use on the different risks, right? So let's say for example, you you do a gear change down from Bitcoin into aetherium. Right, Ethereum is, you know, because of the Dow, you know, thing in 2016, because of the fact that doesn't have a written monetary policy, you can argue it's a chain that is more mutable and has more risk than Bitcoin, it has a higher attack surface, all this stuff. I will agree with you on that. And so if Bitcoin is suitable for storing billions, right? Well, maybe you can host it. And it's totally immutable, because it's certainly mutable. For something that is somewhat mutable, like your corporate charter, right? Your corporate charter, for example, you change it, every once in a while, there's the seed around to be around the seed round, you know, you will occasionally get it. It's it's a, it's a non trivial process to do so. But it's not meant to be completely immutable, right, every round of financing, every new person comes on the cap table. So for a data structure like that, where you're raising money, you know, on the basis of the charter, you're editing the charter to accommodate the new investors, if there is, in my view, a suitable data structure, or other suitable host for that. And this is a different use case than gold. Right, like a corporate charter and gold are just not the same thing. And let me let me just say, why is something like that important? Well, I believe that the state is going to put, you know, the Americans, he is going to put a ton of pressure on companies that are headquartered in Delaware, right? I don't think that's today. I don't think it's tomorrow. But I think over the 2020s, and certainly by like the 2030s. To be headquartered in Delaware, to be a Delaware C Corp is to basically expose yourself to arbitrary levels of x by the US government, right? And instead, what people are going to want So first of all, why do people incorporate in Delaware? They do so because it has the predictability and the experience of the Delaware Chancery court. Right. So if you have a dispute, you know, some arcane kind of thing about, oh, I had pro rata rights, or Oh, you know, like, drag along or something like that. The Delaware Chancery court has seen that 100 times, whereas I don't know Minnesota's may not have right. And so Minnesota person that that that jurists is trying to figure this out for the first time delver person's like, okay, it's like this, this in this case, we're going to resolve it this way. Right. So people, VCs, in particular, wanted to be a Delaware C Corp, because of the predictability of the thing, right? There's something however, that's even more predictable than then than a judge. And that is a smart contract. Right. And especially in the sort of trade war world, where, you know, Chinese investment in the US, you know, was soaring, and then it's kind of fallen off a cliff. Americans don't invest in China, because they don't trust Chinese rule of law. And now the Chinese don't invest in America, because they don't trust American rule of law. But both parties can diligence, a smart contract on the blockchain. And they can both invest in that. And so that's how we get back global free trade in this era of trade wars, right? You can actually have vehicles, that anybody from any country who speaks any language can read the code and ask exactly what it means. And they can invest on that basis, right. And that's something that I think will ultimately be shown to be superior to the Delaware Chancery court, just internationality of it. But you also get our benefits like programmability and automation composability. So you can actually set up a vehicle like this and clone it 1000 times, you can automatically set it up, have it funded and then tear it down and send out distributions, where if you've ever actually done that with a company, it's an enormous pain in the ass, like, you have to send out all the wires and contact all the people and so on and so forth. And once you can automate something, you can do much more of it. So buying and selling companies becomes much more frequent, much more liquid The same way that like you went from the PC to like virtual machines, you could automate the setup and teardown machine, you get the cloud services. So that's like just one example of one chain where, you know, Bitcoin for gold aetherium for these smart contracts in these corporate vehicles, that's quite useful. It's a huge chunk of the economy. And I think now you go further, like something like let's say z cash, right? Well, Bitcoin is awesome, but it doesn't have you know, like transactions or not, are not shielded by default, right? z cash lets you send money with, you know, cryptographic proof, and frankly, actually a lot of Maximus like Mineiro, which has similar kinds of properties with the ring signatures, right. So like, I mean, in many ways, you know, Mineiro has more traction and adoption like among

various kinds of communities right then z cash has lots of the you know, where's guys and dark markets or whatever, I'm sure Mineiro people will be happy with that but there but there's, you know, legitimate uses of it as well. And z cash is kind of more like that your your your Tweedy academics, but Zee cash is genuinely more confidential than than BTC is with chilled transactions. I mean, you've got guys like chainalysis, who are analyzing the Bitcoin blockchain to try to D anonymize you. So okay, now there's an argument for a third chain, right. And then you can basically break out more and more use cases like this. And I kind of think what's gonna happen is a poly chain world where you have different chains that are just geared for different purposes and different communities, and different financial instruments. And I think we need those, because some of those will be like, for social networks, because it's not just enough to keep your gold, you need to also keep your social account, and you need to be able to keep all your stocks and your bonds, your commodities, there's all these things people are going to try to D platform you from, and we're going to need different kinds of chains to keep them. So that's my like, meta argument and I can go into more detail.

Unknown Speaker  21:42  
Well, okay. Good argument back. Okay. Okay. So

Balaji Srinivasan  21:47  
and then when we get to BC stuff, yeah, this is justification. But

Unknown Speaker  21:50  
But I wonder here, is there a conflict between your maximum of views and your VC hat on? And one of the things that I've really kind of struggled with is there, going back to the point that there's been an unhealthy situation where so many blockchain projects have died, Enriching founders and enriching early investors at the cost of retail investors without ever achieving a product market fit? And one of the things I felt we've missed in this world? Sorry, it's just to add to this is bootstrapping. Yep. It's kind of something. It's like the incentive model. It's funny research. In the interview, there was your tweet that I replied back to that time, I was saying, the incentive model doesn't exist, there is no bootstrapping. And it feels like retail has,

Balaji Srinivasan  22:36  
has paid the price. So I think that is a very real, very legitimate and also very solvable issue. Let me explain why in venture capital, right, you know, your your term sheet and your so called definitive documents, right? Like the term she's like, a quick thing that went together, there's a major terms in the definitives are like a longer thing that includes edits to the bylaws and the charter or whatever. These have evolved over a long period of time to ensure not just the short and medium term alignment of incentives, but also to anticipate likely kinds of disputes that might arise in the future, right? For example, vesting schedules are things that that are in place, so that you know that like it, like a co founder doesn't just get 25% and then leave the next day. And then you know, now, like they put in no work, right? That would be a deflection edge case, like a prisoner's dilemma defection, and so tons, and tons of these terms are set up to avoid those issues. And what I think is going to happen and is already happening, is those concepts from venture capital will be put into smart contracts. Right? So everything that you mentioned, you know, like you can stop with just the appropriate terms and smart contracts. And then will happen is the savvy VCs and, and savvy retail investors will follow those savvy VCs into these better smart contracts. Let me give you some examples. First vesting. easy to do, right, you can basically make it so that the smart contract shows that these addresses of the coin founders do not get all their coins at the beginning, they can just dump it on the market, they're aligned with other people's, they've got a long term orientation, maybe a vest over four years, or six years, or 10 years, or whatever. So that's one. Number two, you could also have limits on how much they can move out of those vesting accounts. So you have like dump limitations, right? You can't move more than X number of coins, or y percent or something like that, right? And so on and so forth. Right, the you know, everything from pro rata rights to drag along, whatever all of those concepts can be encoded in in literal code. And in fact, I think we're gonna get to a better situation, ultimately with that, because it's actually code it's no longer legal leaves. It's no longer ambiguous as to what it means it's literally in code. And then you don't have to pay lawyers to for every freaking financing round they make $100,000 for taking templates off the shelf and filling in stuff. I paid a lot of legal bills over the years. You now just boom use a template like like off the shelf a smart card.

Unknown Speaker  25:01  
But that would exist now that you could do that now, right?

Balaji Srinivasan  25:03  
I don't think so I don't like like, well,

Unknown Speaker  25:05  
contracts already exists.

Balaji Srinivasan  25:06  
I mean, Aragon, I think is trying to do stuff like this. We're trying to make libraries or smart contracts and so on. But actually, I was thinking of just doing a series of blog posts like this, right. So you start, and you could incorporate a toy company on Ethereum, and then you tear it down, right? Okay, then you incorporate, and you do the equivalent of a seed financing. And then it's acquired and then you tear down and you show with liquidations would be for each person, and you start to build up to more and more complex examples. Ultimately, I get to like public companies, right? And like, okay, here's what proxy voting rights look like. And here's the thresholds, you'd have to clear. And it's actually awesome. Because a lot of that legal ease is really basically an obfuscated programming language. And you put it into code and becomes very clear as to what's happening, how many people need to turn their private keys at the same time for liquidation to take place. For example, in order to do a Series B round, you often need a majority of common and majority of a to approve the Series B. So all that's like a complex multi SIG, that requires a bunch of folks to sign off and boom, a new share class is issued a new money comes in. You see, I'm saying right. And and so I don't think that has been done yet. I think it's very doable. And I think that's, that's what I was tweeting about, like, we're in this intermediate meteoric stage between incorporating the US incorporating on chain I think that's going to happen.

Unknown Speaker  26:20  
Yeah, it's funny. I'm not such a maximalist that I, I don't support ideas of people using systems to create better processes. I am not that, but I am. I am very much in the Maximus camp in terms of there are way too many blockchain projects that have rich people. And without deserve, you know, the picture. I've just created projects unnecessarily. I think there's been lots of people who've kind of promised dreams and ideas that haven't come to reality. One of the things I worry is that what I do, I don't like the fact that a bunch of people have lost lost money. I think it's sad, but there has been, there's been little to no adoption on a lot of projects. I mean, you talked about z cash. I mean, no one's really using it to transact. Why is that? I don't even mind Mineiro. You know, I get? Yeah, the maximalists. The real ones will kill me for that. I just, I think it's something interesting in there. But still haven't been heavily used. You know, that there is very little adoption. So do you think the whole decentralization it? Could

Unknown Speaker  27:21  
it be a myth?

Balaji Srinivasan  27:22  
So yes, let me talk about that. So first is respect to adoption in general? I think that the here's so the the entire tech industry, I also tweeted about this a while back, the entire tech industry, over the last 15 years ish has been tuned on a set of metrics that are really for social networks, write daily active users, utilization, adoption, and so on, and so forth. And the interesting thing is those metrics when they were introduced in like the mid 2000s, were actually looked at very skeptically. And they were introduced, because for face, early Facebook, and so on, traditional measures of financial performance, profit loss, etc, weren't there since said there are these like things like daily active users, right, or engagement or what have you. And people were very skeptical about it. But now, that which was the insurgent has become the conventional wisdom. And I argue that using last generations metrics to measure the current generation actually misses something very important. Let me explain. I think you can think of like, basically, at least four thresholds for involvement with something, there's like a pageview, viewing the site, there's like a DA, you, you've set up an account and you come back every day, right? Then there's a dh, not a daily active user, but a daily inactive hodler. Right, you haven't just come back, you haven't set up an account and logged in, you have bought and held the coin, right, you've made a financial command that's actually larger than setting up an account, which just takes a little bit of time and clicks, you've actually put real money at stake in your in your hotaling. Right. And then I say the highest level would be physical resident. And I think that's where technology is ultimately going. Right, like after crypto, or like the next stage. But now from this standpoint, hotaling and like the number of holders, they are like dailies because they they're still they've got their money in thing, right? And so many of these coins have actually been accumulating. hodlers right. I can't tell you how many because not all the stats are public, but you can sort of analyze it from addresses. We know some of that on Coinbase. So from that standpoint, adoption is very real. Right? Like lots of these coins are piling up hodlers right. That's kind of one thought,

Unknown Speaker  29:27  
but we don't know why they're piling hodlers we don't know if it's, you know, I mean, I hold on my Bitcoin Yes, long term reasons. Right. You know, a long term believer in bitcoins, you probably have you have over 20 years, you know, you're fine with it. But I would question Is there anything out there that you would put a significant amount of money in say, I would hold that for 10 years? Yeah, for sure. Yeah. Anything else?

Balaji Srinivasan  29:52  
Um, let's see. So I don't want to get I don't want to get into recommendations or particular coins. Okay.

Unknown Speaker  29:58  
Yeah, no pumping. Like it can be a binary and it sounds binary. It's like a theorem and Bitcoin and then probably nothing else.

Balaji Srinivasan  30:04  
No, I, there's a lot of other coins. So so here's actually a very important like mental model kind of down. When there's a new company, a VC doesn't think of it as a szybko. They think of it as a startup. Dude, I'm saying, right? Like, you, you don't think of something as a ship code simply because it doesn't have the traction or distribution or adoption of Google, right? You look at, could it have a niche? Maybe? Could it get big someday? How big could it get? and so on and so forth? Right? And so like, That's why, you know, if there's a new coin, and it's, it's, I mean, Bitcoin is the king of coins is 10 years old, it's got all the traction and so on in the world. There's a coin that's like a year old, and it doesn't have the traction of Bitcoin. That doesn't mean to me that it's like a failure, or a shit coin or something like that. I mean, there are shit coins. I'm not saying there aren't right, there's true scam coins and so on out there. But it'd be like calling every new company shitty because it's only got like one person in a garage. And it's not like Facebook, or Google or Amazon yet, right? That's kind of like one mental mindset. Number one. The second thing is, and this is very important, I think for maximalists, you know, an enormous amount empirically of the demand for Bitcoin comes from the crypto economy, because folks are cashing out into bitcoin. Right? Like No, and I don't feel that ever justifies it, though. Right? But I'm just saying like, for for that percentage of maximalists, who are what are called price maximalists. And that's a significant chunk of the group, like, you know, this this whole trading economy, even if you think it's all Las Vegas, right? With Bitcoin at the core of it, like that increases the demand for Bitcoin, there's absolutely no question about that. We see the stats on that, right? Like any decks or whatever, you know, will tell you that like, Well, yeah, folks buy a lot of Bitcoin here. Because that's, that's a reliable thing they come back to, they even say, cashing out into bitcoin, because they know that one is not going away. Right? That's kind of second point. Third point. And this something I've tweeted about and talked about speculation is installation in crypto. And here's what I mean by that. With Bitcoin itself. The entire speculative process is actually something where I'm not sure if Satoshi intended it or there's some emergent genius. But if you had tried to turn this thing into a step function, right, and said, Hey, you have to put all your net worth into bitcoin and operate in this crypto economy, which doesn't exist, right? Nobody would have done it. Right. It basically, if you had to act as if Bitcoin was a million dollars at the beginning, no one would have done it. So instead, what's happened is we've had this stochastic process sort of rise to greatness, right through various orders of magnitude. And during the entire process, people could buy and sell and belief would go up and down or whatever. But it's like, coming all the way up. And eventually we'll hit like, you know, 100,000 or a million. And so you did this, you turn this vertical cliff, into a series of approachable, you know, kind of steps. And crucially, you also love dual boot, right? You allowed people to maintain most of their net worth, in USD and operate their normal life in USD and put some of it into BTC. And then like, you know, just just operate this whole way rather than demanding people have this, you know, immediate vertical step over. And I think that that same thing is true for a lot of these other coins. Like, if each of them, there's some vision of the world where they become successful, right. I think a theorem is the closest to that. And that's why there's got five years of traction, right is 2014. Because 10 years for traction. 2009. Right.

Unknown Speaker  33:22  
Well, let's let's talk about what is the Ethereum use case? Because your use case? Yeah, yeah. Cuz it was, you know, Icos, and at the time, I actually thought this was brilliant. Yeah, I didn't know that. I thought, this is brilliant. It's a new way to invest money. Yeah. And it's a new way for people to fundraise. I can get involved in things, and I'll look at making money and then I lost a load and then a lot of people lost a lot of money. And then I realized, you know what, this maybe this isn't healthy. I mean, was it like 400 billion of retail money has been lost?

Balaji Srinivasan  33:48  
Oh, no, it's not that much. 4 billion notes of that much. I mean, that I think that is the we're talking about is how much the valuations came down. But But like, you know, seven can be valued at 100 billion, but only a million has gone in. Right, like, so. Let's take this one.

Unknown Speaker  34:03  
Let's just say billions have been lost. Sure.

Balaji Srinivasan  34:05  
Well, billions in nominal market cap have come down that I agree.

Unknown Speaker  34:08  
Yes, I think, Okay. Well, so a lot of people have lost a lot of Yes, yes. And

Balaji Srinivasan  34:13  
you're also raising billions in absolute money has been like sitting there forever.

Unknown Speaker  34:17  
But also, millions, 10s of millions or even hundreds of millions has been made by founders and some funds, but I can't identify who but almost certainly some have made them. And some have certainly made that money by dumping or retail. Sure. That is something that if somebody did an investigation into they'll certainly find examples of that. So it is unhealthy. It is it isn't great. And, you know, if we look at some of these projects, even ones that may be listed on Coinbase, or other other exchanges, you would argue that some of these are almost certainly destined to fail.

Balaji Srinivasan  34:52  
Well, so Well, here's here's a very important kind of concept right? investing is never about guaranteed returns. Right, like, like they're there, you know, you invest in the like the name of the game is there's a possibility of loss as well as positive gain. You know, reward is not certain, but risk is certain. Right. And I'm and this is kind of gets our earlier thing about how the internet has more upside and more downside. I do believe that people should be able to bungee jump, be able to skydive, be able to motorbike, be able to take risks, right. And sometimes those risks will leave them in a better place, and sometimes it'll leave them in a worse place. Now, I also believe that you should have sites and organizations that provide star ratings and reviews and reputation. I believe in things like these contractual things we talked about where you have vesting schedules alignment of interest. But But I think that the most fundamental, you know, there were tons of people who called Bitcoin a scam, in the early days still do. Lots of people still do call it a scam. Right? And they were wrong. And had they been able to prevent somebody from going and investing in Bitcoin, they would have prevented that person from getting rich. Right. And so the same is true for so many startups. I mean, like, if you're in tech, like, for example, I'm, I may be the first or at least I'm certainly one of the first investors in Soylent. My God, the amount of negative publicity that company got in the early days was just insane, right? But it's like, you know, it's doing extremely well, subscription business. And like, it's worth, I can't maybe say, but it's, it's worth a lot of money now, right? And so like, if you're in 10, are tuned for technology, lots of stuff. I tweeted this actually, just the other day, like, you know, these guys journalist writing Google's toughest searches for a business model. Facebook will never make a profit, Amazon dot bomb. Right? And, you know, you so your biggest wins are often the ones that look bad at the beginning, right? Because they're controversial and polarizing.

Unknown Speaker  36:42  
Okay, so but but history and crypto is slightly different. Firstly, we're throwing people, their first opportunity to possibly make these kind of investments are in one of the highest risky, most volatile markets. Sure. It's like it is dangerous. Um, but I'm, you know, I'm up for people being able to invest, you know, to invest as they choose, use their money as they choose. I don't like these investor accreditation rules. But I don't think we have the proper mechanisms for people to actually learn about what they're investing. But

Balaji Srinivasan  37:11  
if we actually put them in place right there, when you said learn about whether that's actually the same thing that the customers are asking for with Coinbase, or they want to learn about they want reviews

Unknown Speaker  37:18  
on ratings, I think you'll learn about how to use what the the tech means, but I don't think they're learning about investing and, and risk management, risk management. You know, I mean, I've met people who've been bankrupted by crypto, right. But you talk about, you know, we don't call every company that's built chipko until it achieves something, I think, because the failure rates is very different in crypto, if you went on coin market cap, look, you know, ultimately, if you take all the company, all the block chains that have failed, I mean, sometimes How do you define failure, but we know of there were coins in the top 50 and the top 50 of the market cap, they've got no active development on them. Right? So what I'm saying is this just such a high failure rate on these projects, that they are super risky investments. And yeah, I think it's just kind of concerning or not healthy.

Balaji Srinivasan  38:08  
So So what I've actually compare this to is the.com. Bubble, right, like the.com, bubble in 99 2000. And so on. The sentiment around like Internet startups was exactly like what you're saying.

Unknown Speaker  38:21  
But we have many from this from the early days, it was still here, man,

Balaji Srinivasan  38:26  
you know, well, so actually, let me talk about that. Billions of dollars are wiped out, lots of retail investors lost their shirts, massive bankruptcies, like Cosmo and pets.com, web and calm. Everything that you're talking about, I can, I can find probably a number of examples. There are a few survivors, Amazon, Google, Yahoo. And actually, those alone justify, like all the investment that went into it, because if those few survivors, and the thing, you know, are obvious in retrospect, and big deals, but many, many, many, many companies raise money, they often raise money from public investors, and they died. Right. And now here are a couple of things that are interesting. First, is that led to about five years ish of extreme skepticism around internet startups and so on. And it's really, I think, the Google IPO in 2004. That really did it. Second, even through last 15 years, you know, one of one of our, you know, there's obviously the financial crisis in 2008. But one of the things that we observed as VCs is a lot of journalists called 10 of last year bubbles, you know, because it'd be in a tech bubble or whatever, there was a huge narrative for last 10 years or so. And really, there wasn't like a quote, popping instead, we've just gotten more and more and more tech startups that are working, and even if there's bankruptcies of tech startups and so on, the financing mechanisms have evolved to the point that Yeah, you know, you've got vesting schedules, you've got safe notes and so on. And you had to have all these train crashes to figure out how to not have train crashes, right, like all these early pilots aviation, you know, automobiles, those things blew up. And from their bluffs and from the accidents, we engineered them to not do that in the future, at least not to that at the same rate. So that's kind of one one kind of thing. Second thing is I'm actually still super bull on Icos in the long term, they may be called something different. For example, in the late 90s and early 2000s, people talked about active Server Pages or applets. Right. And then it was got rebranded because it was not a Java but you did with JavaScript. And at first people called it Ajax and now you call it like dynamic web pages or what have you, right, though dynamic web pages are broader concepts always front end. So whatever the v2 of Icos is, maybe it will be called Icos. I mean, I iOS are kind of like sort of a v2 in a sense,

Unknown Speaker  40:43  
but they're exactly the same. Yeah, the show is the same mechanism is still a dump on retail.

Balaji Srinivasan  40:48  
Yeah, yeah. But But I think that, um, let me let me just analyze it from a somewhat different vantage point, right. Icos represent the simultaneous disruption of venture capital, international wire transfers, crowdfunding and cap tables, right? So venture capital, because the capital is coming from folks who are not on Sand Hill Road, international wire transfers, because it's coming from all around the world, like, you're in Turkey, you're in Brazil, Japan, India, doesn't matter what your local laws are, with an internet connection, you can get into something and then investment. crowdfunding may be obvious, but I'll make the point anyway, in 2015, a large online crowdfunding was 10, or 15 million by 2017 is 4 billion, right? That's like a 400. x improvement in just the amount of money that can be moved around the world. One example.

Unknown Speaker  41:30  
Yeah, as sales. I

Balaji Srinivasan  41:32  
know. Right? But But still, like the point is that the the record setter in 2015 was Star City, right? So that was the number one crowdfunding project of all time in 2015 was 10, or 15 million, the number one of all time in 2017, was 4 billion, that just shattered the backlog of what's possible online. today. Yeah.

Unknown Speaker  41:47  
But I mean, it proved that the you know, it proved that you could move money quicker that you could have more people involved. But it I don't think it made anything better. I don't think we've improved venture capital.

Balaji Srinivasan  41:59  
Ah, well, so here's, here's my point is, regardless, forget about the project specific projects that were funded. simply the fact of a 400 x improvement in something over a period of two or three years is an enormous quantitative improvement in the amount of money you can focus over the internet into something. Right? That's kind of what I'm getting at, right? Like, maybe this project will succeed, maybe they'll fail, right? The fact is, you can now raise a billion dollars on the internet that's new and different. And you could use that to build a city, you could use that for lots of other kinds of things that haven't, that's not being useful, right. So as a tool, it's just a technological tool. It's a major innovation. Do you see what I'm getting? No,

Unknown Speaker  42:37  
I understand the innovation, like the, you know, the ease of moving money around democratizes investment, right. But like I say, I think it's done on the wrong projects, because I like, Why are there no breakout apps in crypto? Why? Why is it no mass adoption? At least at least, at least when you look at the early days of the.com? There were people who were using pets.com, there were people using web and the problem that they had is they got the mechanics wrong in terms of the the economics of the business, you know, actually, what that introduce was that the bootstrapping, right, like the web bank case, prove that they invested too much in the infrastructure and not, you know, they should really have just bootstrapped. So that proof that but I don't we seem to have this problem in that that this decentralization concept is appears to be a red herring. It's almost like the innovation is in the backend, but that people aren't recreating a front end experience that anyone cares about.

Balaji Srinivasan  43:31  
Well, okay, let me let me see. Let me take apart a few different things there. Versus, you know, lots of the.com eIders were kind of pricey idea too early. Right. Yeah. Like, you know, web band is feasible, basically 20 years later with instacart. And that required, like widespread mobile phones, and widespread, you know, familiarity with the Internet, and so on. And so lots of those things that happened in India in 2000. You know, they worked in 2005, or 2010, or 2015, or 2020, but not right away, right. And I think there'll be similar with crypto, lots of the stuff that's been put out there will work eventually, but maybe not, maybe all the pieces are in place. Number one. second concept is, I actually think that some of the defy apps are here, right. So in particular, the biggest one that I've seen that a lot of people are starting to use is interest. Right? Because you can get way more interest with something like compound and defy then you can have your bank right now you're taking some risk there. But it's real, like folks who have had, you know, like a million dollars or whatever, in compound or last several months have made like, basically, you know, like, like on the order of 10% interest, or I forget the exact number, you have to look it up, but it's way more than you'd have in a bank. That's a real application. Right? That is something which is a significant amount of basically cause I free money I'll be at with some risk of, you know, the chain or the smart contract. So two interest is one. There's a lot of people who are doing so decentralized loans, decentralized exchanges, decentralized derivative, decentralized markets, all the defy stuff. There's, there's a site called eath locked in defi, you may have seen it my little site, right? Like, all this stuff is up. Right now, there's always intermediate setbacks like Vale shut down or whatever. But but the traction for that is real. And you can see that another application that I think is pretty darn important. The advent of stable coins not just tether, which I, you know, who knows, like, you know, it's got drama with tether, but you know, ustc I'm biased, you know, we launched that at Coinbase, I helped lead that project, and dye maker dye, each of those I think fits different use cases tether for, you know, the Grand Theft Auto crowd. usdc is your, you know, banking compliant coin, which has probably the maybe the lowest redemption risk. And then die is actually very interesting, because like, truly decentralized coin, stable coin, and I think the dye is, you can now build a banking interface in any app without a banking license. That's like, massively important, right? You can be an engineer in Nigeria, you can be in Colombia, you can be in Turkey, Russia, India, wherever, if you have an internet connection, you can set up a US dollar denominated interface, right in your app that uses dye on the back end. And you do not need a banking license from the US. Right? That's a massive, massive breakthrough. Whenever you take something that was like a 01. And you know, it's like equivalent to making everybody into a publisher on Twitter, right? Like, you're just taking something that was extremely locked up behind, you know, armed guard, basically, and had anybody be able to do it. So I actually do think the applications are coming out. But But I'd say that hotaling is really like the most important application because it speculates the future into the present by huddling you boost the price. by boosting price you gain attention, you gain the resources to actually build those apps, and it might take like three or four or five or 10 years to build on.

Unknown Speaker  46:52  
Next up, I talked to Balaji more about Bitcoin and Coinbase. But before that, I've got a message from my amazing sponsors. Firstly, let's talk about cracking my lead sponsor, the amazing the mighty cracking, the most trusted place to buy itself Bitcoin, the best place to buy sell Bitcoin. As I mentioned previously, I'm going to try and get Jesse back on the show, I want to talk to him about a whole bunch of things. I want to talk to him about Bitcoin, when talking about the exchange what's been going on. So hopefully, that's going to happen soon. But we already know that they have the best security practices of any exchange. And if you haven't listened to my show with Nick Percoco their chief security officer, definitely go and check it out. That was a great interview. But we're cracking calm, you've got the best place to buy, sell and trade digital currencies. You've also got margin trading with up to five x leverage for you crazy leverage traders out there. They've got futures, they've got indices, they've got the krakken OTC desk for large trades, they've got crypto watch where you can trade on multiple exchanges from a single platform. And for you advanced traders out there, I've got some bad as account management for you, there really is no better place to Bitcoin traders. So join me in supporting krakken by heading over to Kraken calm which is kr a ke n.com and lastly but never least is my good friends over a block phi. And as I mentioned previously, they have just announced a call update for interest accounts with block five flex you cannot choose to receive your interest payments in the currency of your choice. So if you want to open up account with Bitcoin and get paid in your interest in G USD, if you want to open up a GST account and get paid your interest back in Bitcoin is up to you. Block fi flex allows you to choose the currency that you want to receive your interest in with a block fight interest account you can earn interest every month on Bitcoin eath and G USD and also with block phi you have access to crypto back loans where you can take out a loan against your Bitcoin ether or Litecoin if you are interested in trying any of this out then I do recommend you do your own research and then head over to block five comm which is bl o ck fi.com What is it the maximum is missing them because so determined in their view that everything that isn't Bitcoin is a shit coin and I agree with them almost entirely I mean certainly at the end is the different use cases are more obvious like something like Bitcoin cash has has no need. To me that is a true shake on something like brave Okay, brave it's to me is a true shit coin. Okay, nobody needs to be making donations with a volatile coin that has no liquidity that really was a tool for them to raise half a million. Okay,

Balaji Srinivasan  49:28  
so let's talk about this. So, first gender war of 1812 are for that.

Unknown Speaker  49:32  
No, okay, so I felt like tokens you have not read anything. Sorry. These are

Balaji Srinivasan  49:37  
things hooks I remember things right. So you know, the the United Kingdom and the USA we're still on the outs during the war of 1812 and the UK actually like burned the White House right there was still like mad at the US is not you know, pleasant time. hundred seven years later their ally during World War One and World War Two and they have, you know, the special relationship or the you know, basically the twin century. Maybe that's Breaking down river in some ways, but for a long time, you know, like, nobody really cared, oh, the maybe people in Britain would say, the colonies or whatever. But nobody cared about the fact that there was a fight in 1776 or 1812, like 100 something years later. And that's because these countries kind of occupy their own niches and so on. And what I think kind of is going to happen. I'm not saying for all coins or anything like that, but these coins, they have their own communities, and they differentiate and they adopt different use cases and what have you. And so for example, Litecoin is now you know, their marketing is the test net for Bitcoin. Right? But that's bullshit. Maybe so right one has a test net, fine, right. But basically, like, you know, the live production test net was real money or whatever it and you roll out features like seg wit, like I, you know, I know, Charlie and like, friendly with him. Yeah, me too. But I have no beef with Litecoin. Or, Charlie, I'm just saying that that is that is where that has kind of evolved, right? And then, you know, Bitcoin cash, and even like, you know, bsv, or whatever, like, you know, these I know, I know, I know, I know, bsv. Like, well, we can get into that. The, what I think happens with a lot of these coins is if they survive, they evolve. And, you know, why don't you things happens, either. They just truly have no raison d'etre whatsoever, or they just start occupying niches that, you know, the other organism or the other chain doesn't or can't, or won't, or whatever, right. And I think that's actually good. And I'll give I'll give an example of this, which is actually Benioff used to say this, he's like, choose your competitors carefully, because you'll become a lot like them. But the opposite of that is, like Uber and Lyft, sort of differentiating marketing wise, Uber is like the sleek black car, and then lift is like the, you know, like the friendly kind of thing. Each existence polarize, and so that the mark kind of opened up like this. Another example, actually, from the early days of my first company Council, you know, from a dorm room from a dorm room. That's right, that's right. Yeah. So you know, like, at the time, genotyping, like DNA testing, that was a technology. And in theory, from like, an academic standpoint, when you gene type somebody, you could get their ideals from abelian diseases, and for, you know, their immune system, you know, like immune, the genes evolved immunity, and for their hair color, eye color, ancestry, all this other stuff, you could genotype all that at the same time, the technology was uniform. And eventually, what happened, though, is we focused on the medical, right, that is to say, we went to clinics, we were covered by insurance, we were, you know, published in peer reviewed, you know, papers and so on. And we went really focus on the medical genes, and 23andme focused on and they were forced to by the FDA, really, to focus on ancestry and all the fun stuff, right. So, you know, the technological platform is actually very similar, the niches that they occupy, and all the stuff that grew around them, was very, very different by the end of the day, right. And we were like a medical product that was, like, acquired by Myriad Genetics, you know, last year for $335 million. And 23andme has become like an ancestry like fun thing that Elizabeth Warren takes to, you know, prove her Native American ancestry or what have you, right. And so, so the same technology results in very different niches. And I think that's going to happen with crypto as well.

Unknown Speaker  53:12  
I still sit and look, though, and see this. There's no adoption, little to no adoption, let's say. And one of the most important things for these cryptocurrencies is to have some form of liquidity. And it's almost non existent in so many currencies. So I wonder whether there is, I don't know, how do I put this? What do you think of bnb? I think BMB, I personally wouldn't invest in it. I think it's, I think I mean, so the thing about BMB, you get benefits of being a trader, for trading shit coins by owning it. So essentially, it's like the king ship coin to trade the ship coins, is obviously delivered a great return for a bunch of people. But as you know, what, what finance need is a constant supply of new chickens. If it doesn't have a supply an issue coins, ultimately is going to lose trading volume. And ultimately, then people want to be trade there, then the bnb tokens can have little value, and it's going to drop in value. So I think the ieo has been the temporary restoration of that. But I do think I'm looking Where's value creation? And at the moment, I don't see much value creation. I see a lot of I just see a lot of projects and a lot of talk here about smart contract platforms, but I don't see value creation, I don't see usage. And that worries me and I personally think is unethical to push the trade of these on to essentially creating VCs out of retail, who really are out of their depth. Yeah, that's I think it's unhealthy.

Balaji Srinivasan  54:43  
Okay, so let me let me speak two things. I think if you look at the eath locked in defi stats, or like dap radar or things like that, defy pulse. I think the traction is actually starting to be there for defy I mean, you can make real money with interest. And I think that's like that's a you know, a Major application that that's there, but let me talk to your more more fundamental or different point, which is should retail investors become VCs? Right? So I actually think yes, and I think this will actually on net be very much for the good worldwide. And let me explain my my thesis on this. You know, people talk about the 1% and the 99%. Actually, in the future, the 9% will be capital and the 1% will be labor. Okay, why do I say that? Because everybody in the world by like 2030, maybe may 24, latest, will have, you know, their phone or the equivalent thereof, and be able to tap and invest in the equivalent of a literal crypto Twitter like project scrolling by and you can put in $1 $10 $100? If the dollar is hyper inflated, maybe it's Bitcoin you're putting in or version of Bitcoin, right? So, you know, you scroll through, you invest money. And maybe you make money, maybe you lose money, right? But it's it's like, you know, liking on Twitter or retweet on Twitter, it's like, infinitely liquid, you can, you know, review Who else has invested sort of like a combination of Twitter and angellist? In some ways, right? Angeles will show you who else has invested, when did they invest? Maybe How much did they invest? You can follow investors, you can invest behind them, and right behind their diligence, those kinds of things actually help novice and retail investors because they can be like, Oh, well, navall invest in it. So you know, it's like more likely to be legit, right? Or Peter teal did, it's more likely to be legit, you sort of outsource your diligence, from you know, this guy's doing technical diligence, you're just doing social diligence, right? So it's like a lower threshold. And I think that literal crypto Twitter will be one of the most predictable applications of crypto, that's just taking all the stuff we already know exists. We know people are basically doing this already. And just putting that into an application. I think there'll be a very big deal.

Unknown Speaker  56:47  
So current retail investors in crypto right now their collateral damage for a future better system.

Balaji Srinivasan  56:55  
Sort of, I mean, like in the sense of like, Yeah, actually, so this is something you know, there's there's a, you know, the Gartner hype cycle. Yes. Yeah. So there's like an academic Gartner hype cycle is fine. There's something that Oh, gosh, her name Carlota Perez. Okay, you should read this book, or at least be familiar with it. Very, very important. Like, you know, Fred Wilson, Chris Dixon, you know, a bunch of my, you know, friends colleagues, like, are into this book. And she documents that not just the.com bubble, but every major infrastructure bubble, including those that are out of living memory now, railroads, right, automobiles, and so on, you know, going back pretty far, had this sort of pattern of technological trigger, huge hype, massive over investment, lots of people lose their shirts, right? And then, you know, admit this period of like, sort of cynicism or whatever, there is a rise towards the thing actually, eventually working and being scaled out. Right. And this is I forget her the name of the book, but Google her name, Carlota Perez. So what I see with crypto The reason I don't think of it as sui generis is, I'm like, yeah, this is how it always happens. Right? This is how the internet happened. This is how cell phones you know, happened. And sometimes you get like, multiple waves and patterns, right? Like every Bitcoin surge and crash we're on basically like the fourth, you know, version of that, basically, right? Every one of those what happens is in the surge, you bring in tons of new money, and then you do weed people out. But here's the interesting thing, you know, that you teach them in the weeding is loyalty. Right? You actually, you know, they've all had this good tweet of all backgrounds, like Bitcoin is a scheme for you know, deposing tyrants, and dictators dress up as a get rich quick scheme, because it looks like get rich quick, but if you try to get rich, quick, you will get poor quick. Yeah, right. And, and so really, the only way to actually make money in the space is have a long term thesis and hodl. Right. And so, so it's interesting. So it's sort of like map to our current, you know, debauch era where everything is get rich, quick and fast and instant results. So sort of maps to that and attracts people with that, but then it pulls them in with loyalty.

Unknown Speaker  59:03  
Right? And, and eventually, the only way you actually make money is loyalty. And let's just loyalty intelligence as well, obviously, you know, you have to, like have a long term thesis and something's totally alone. You know, we'll only get you so far. But um, that's that's kind of how I think about that. Right? I'm conscious of time, but I haven't asked you really much about Coinbase Sure, I can actually do one ask you a few things. And then I'm gonna gonna let you go. So obviously, you're very interested in appointment at Coinbase coming off and.com. You were saying there's a Bitcoin are great for coin base. Wasn't the longest tenure. A year was it? Yeah, you did. Could you tell me what? What was your vision when you joined it? Obviously, you joined a CTO with the.com acquisition but clearly a bigger role than CTO because even on your LinkedIn, your accomplishments, they're waiting on the CTO. So that's fine. But what what was your vision for Coinbase when you were there?

Balaji Srinivasan  59:57  
Sure. So So I do think I did a lot. A lot. I think, you know, you talk to Brian, Emily, Fred or some Fred Wilson, you know, just ask them whether you you know, think I did something there. So, here are the major things I think I spearheaded. So first is a lot the earn, earn integration rather Coinbase, you know, earn integration, we talked about that already, that was a big deal for acquiring customers both for our coins and for, you know, for Coinbase itself. And for our customers who win on all three dimensions. Okay, that was a big one, several hundred million dollars in contracts. The second relates to that was several of the urn engineers, and then an AI over the nucleus of a team that recruit a bunch of crypto engineers, and rebuilt the back end of Coinbase. So up until that point, up until when I joined Coinbase only had four coins, Bitcoin, Bitcoin, cash, Litecoin, and aetherium. And three of those are, you know, basically Bitcoin, like, and the fourth is aetherium. So it didn't have a capability for adding new coins rapidly, right? It was very much like this one major effort like years ago to add a theorem, then after that, it was just, you know, the same infra. And there were, you know, quite a few new rails and coins coming out, some of them by very accomplished computer scientists, you know, like, we don't know if all of them are gonna work. But, you know, you've got the Turing Award winners and, you know, folks from you know, Technion Cornell, MIT, etc. These are legit people who, you know, we consider at least worth listening to, right. So the company needed the capability to add a bunch of coins. And so what we did was, we turned it from something that took, like, eight months into something that took eight functions, right? So we lamda fight it, I'm not sure if you know that term. But AWS lambda is like a service for like function as a service. So there's certain kinds of things like, for example, create, sign and broadcast a transaction, they're so generic between chains, and letters are like, you know, create a shielded transaction and so on. And so we abstracted out like these common functions. And then now once you implemented those functions, you could implement like bindings and then swap in a new chain very quickly. So as the second major thing after earn second major thing was rewriting the back end, built a boom, snap and a new chain very quickly, right. And you started to see that, you know, over the last, you know, 12 to 15 months, Quimby's suddenly added a bunch of new coins and chains. Okay. I know, the Maximus didn't like that. But our customers loved it. Right. Like, like, that's, that's a big part of I think, what's kept Coinbase? Not just relevant. But go ahead.

Unknown Speaker  1:02:26  
Was there a pressure for that, though? Because

Balaji Srinivasan  1:02:29  
our customers? Yeah,

Unknown Speaker  1:02:31  
yes. From your customers. But does the pressure come from customers asking for it? Or does the pressure come from the fact that you know, these customers are going to be on buying that, you know, they're going to be on crack, and they're going to be on other exchanges, because you don't have them? Because there was previously a very conservative approach to adding new coins. Yeah, there was a frame, but that seemed to go out the window. For me, it looks like you know, you joined April 23 2018, Bitcoin dropped from 20, K to sub seven K, we were entering a winter Coinbase still managed to raise another 300 million on a $7.7 billion valuation, which were instrumental, you helped with the deck, that's obviously going to come with pressure and 8.8 $7.7 billion valuation. There is clearly revenue pressure, and you will clearly have lost customers to buy Nance. So I'm guessing that I mean, this is where I want to get into the whole world, like, how do VCs work? Like how much pressure comes from the VC to say, Look, you've raised 300 million, your revenues dropping? What are you doing for this? Ah,

Balaji Srinivasan  1:03:42  
so so I can put your mind at ease on that, because there's certainly other situations where VCs or whatever will put pressure on a company, because it's actually in the strongest financial position, probably of any company in crypto by probably a good margin. And the the pressure was really from our customers, right to respond to the customers. Again, I'm not saying that VCs never pressure a company or what have you, that definitely does happen at times. But that's not what happened here. This was something where, like, you know, I don't know how many tickets but 10s of thousands, probably hundreds of thousands of customer tickets, were basically yelling us, you know, why have you not added these coins, right, like, and every time that we'd add a coin, there'd be a surge up in in positive reviews and NPS and so on and you're operating business, you have to listen to your customers ultimately, right? The flip side of it is actually, again, big Bitcoin proponent. I've always been a big big proponent, but a lot of businesses that will I'll give you an example with Expedia, right. This is a long time ago but i think it's it's it's representative Expedia went and added the ability to buy tickets with Bitcoin to its site, right. And this got a lot of praise, but no purchases. Right. And I think a lot of stuff is like that where there's there's a huge gap between Express preference and stated preference, you know, like, there's what do people actually do? And what do they say they're gonna do? Sometimes it's the same, you know, I'm thirsty. And I actually I say, I'm thirsty. And I drink water, right? Or I say I, you know, I don't like asparagus, and I don't eat asparagus. Other times, it's off to agnel Oh, I hate Uber and I call an Uber, or, Oh, I love the charity, but I don't do any charity. Right? And so you see the full two by two. And we just one of the things about crypto is the people who buy crypto on Coinbase are like, not the people who are tweeting. It's just like, you know, I mean, this 30 million people are she's done more than that. Right? So obviously, most of those like 29.9, whatever of those million people are not, you know, active on crypto Twitter, it's only like a few hundred people who are active in big on crypto Twitter, right?

Unknown Speaker  1:05:48  
I wonder how many were asking during a bull run? Because they like coin base? They're like the experience, and then post boron on a path perhaps regret?

Balaji Srinivasan  1:05:57  
Well, so So actually, this is this gets to an important point, which is one thesis about Coinbase is that it exists to help its customers make money. Right? Like That is to say like, you know, folks, you know, in the sense of why do you go to Google to find information, right? Why do you go to Facebook? Okay, connect with friends? Why do you go to Twitter? Well, I'm learning about what's going on in the news, right? are searching in my interests? Why do you go to YouTube to watch videos, every great company can be summarized in one kind of almost reductive sentence, right? And then you expand that and expand that. And fundamentally, like why do people come to Coinbase? To make money? Right, like that's, that's really what it is. I've never felt that.

Unknown Speaker  1:06:37  
Okay, Bitcoin, and I do not I use, I've used Coinbase for a long time, way before I ever started working with krakken. And having, you know, certain loyalties to them. I was a big proponent, when everyone was hating on shirtless. I was like, but come on. You know, they're at the top, they've got the hardest pressures ago, the hardest job, but I never thought of it as that I just use the second half of my sentence. Yeah.

Balaji Srinivasan  1:06:58  
To make money over the long term.

Unknown Speaker  1:07:02  
Right? Never thought of it. I just thought I go to Coinbase to buy crypto.

Balaji Srinivasan  1:07:06  
Right, right. But But before crypto has a use case, right? There, they're like,

Unknown Speaker  1:07:13  
it's like we do YouTube. I don't go to be entertained. I go to watch videos correct. So well, with these. You've taught the first examples. You've talked about the function. But with this, you've talked about the potential outcome.

Balaji Srinivasan  1:07:24  
Right? So you're right, that basically, there's there's two different things that are kind of side by side, which are, have you heard the term like the job, you're hiring the company to do? Like, you buy a Slurpee, but you're buying it to be entertained on a long trip or whatever, right? So the function of Coinbase is by crypto, you know, like the functional thing, but the purpose or you know, what have you is, because you mentioned this earlier, you're you're kind of indictment of like Icos or what have you, me that's too strong or whatever, but your criticism of it was folks lost a lot of money, therefore, legitimate, therefore, bad, right. And the flip side of that is also the same, like the most positive customer reviews come from those people who've made the most money. They are the ones who end up recommending and others because, hey, I made money on this thing. It's a positive example for them. Right? So then the question gets into, okay, how and, you know, there's there's two different ways by the way of making money, there's like, the day trading, bollinger bands, technical stuff, whatever, fine. If people want to do that more power to them. However, that's not my style of making money, or what I believe in, I believe in making money over the long term, right? Because thing that's more predictable also, and it's less scammy or whatever, right? So make money over the long term. What does that mean? Well, earning crypto, if you can offer tasks, now people have zero money at risk. Right? They're just making 10 bucks for doing something.

Unknown Speaker  1:08:44  
Okay. Yeah, but you could argue it's like, well, if you want to learn about crack cocaine, you need to smoke a little

Balaji Srinivasan  1:08:51  
Well, I don't think it's quite like that. I mean, what

Unknown Speaker  1:08:53  
it is because what you're you're doing is you're giving them free money. And then they're going through the process of getting the free money and learning to sell it. And then they're like, Oh, I can buy more and I was like,

Balaji Srinivasan  1:09:04  
Oh, I see your point. Now but but I mean, earn in the broader sense. So but so but because

Unknown Speaker  1:09:09  
this stuff is I think it's a fine line between investing in gambling

Balaji Srinivasan  1:09:15  
well, so so it's interesting you say that because basically like so let's say there's three kinds of gambling right there is negative some gambling which is you're gambling in a casino and then you're basically like, you might make money but on average, the odds are against you the household win right? There serve like zero sum gambling, which is like gambling with your friends, right dice and cards and so on. There's like positive some gambling, which is VC where ideal your wealth creating, right, you're, you're creating, you're investing in something and it's, it's Dropbox, and it creates value for the world, right like, and it's unambiguously positive. And what's interesting is public markets investing is actually more similar to zero sum than positive sum, arguably, right? It's got the positive aspect of providing liquidity. So there's something but many times it's like, you know, the growth of the company is topped out and there's a winner and a loser in the trade. It's not like the thing is just going up like this. And so so all those things exist in society. And I guess I believe that folks should be able to take that risk if they're, they're smart enough, but I want to come back to this point about earn for a second or earning. Um, yes, one kind of task is to like earn for letting people learn about a new coin, other kinds of tasks would be like completing a survey responding to an email, now you've actually just done labor for the thing, and you've, you've earned it, and of course, you can spend it. The point is, now No one's putting any money at risk. They're coming up from a zero basis, right? It's pure positivity. And if you can get a million people to earn 10 bucks, you know, that's positive. A third kind of thing. So So trading is one way you can earn, you know, ideally buy and hold, or make money, earnings. Another way you can make money. A third way is interest, right, getting money and interest, and so on, and so forth. So you'll start to see Coinbase, adding ways to make money for the long term in the crypto economy with all these different kinds of instruments and techniques to to basically give people a positive experience.

Unknown Speaker  1:11:08  
This is done in his wife Rogan episode because we promised to as we've done two and a half, I've actually got to go get a flight. Right. So I do would definitely have to do a follow up now because there's so much we haven't covered so much. Do you want to ask one more question? It's quite spiky. Do how unfair is the comment that Coinbase hates Bitcoin? totally unfair?

Balaji Srinivasan  1:11:32  
Yeah, I mean, like, a coin base? I mean, me, Brian, I mean, like, everybody on the board or large holders of Bitcoin, I should say, everybody, let's I can't speak for everybody's individual position. Let's say every fund is a large holder of Bitcoin, early backer of Bitcoin. I think, you know, there's a time period where pretty much almost every major Bitcoin CEO, I mean, remember, you're talking about a Bitcoin CEO, right? You're talking about like Vorhees Armstrong, like Ji Han, or whatever, like 2017 these are folks that they're not just like normal Bitcoin holders. These are people who put their life savings, their career, their family's money, all the stuff on the line, to go and start a company around Bitcoin in 2013 or 2012 or 2014, when it was certainly not like popular do so. And for these folks who were way, way, way, way out there on the right tail of like support for Bitcoin, you know, they were a lot of them were trolled into oblivion for I mean, they're not dead, but like, trolled endlessly, as being enemies of Bitcoin or what have you, like evil people, bad people, etc. And what it reminded me of actually is like, you know, the Bolsheviks versus the mensheviks, you know, like, you know, far left activists, you know, the Monty Python would make fun of this, right? They would, they would split and they'd split and split some more, and the Maoists and the Marxist Leninist would be at each other's throats, over really minor doctrinal differences relative to like the broader scope of things they agreed on.

Unknown Speaker  1:13:03  
I will have to pull you up on the shirt. Okay, so and you've picked up some interesting people there. So firstly, what GM were I was separate and totally, I mean, personally factory and he got it for me. He tried to destroy Bitcoin. Okay. So he separate, Eric, I think was on the wrong side of history on the New York agreement. I like Eric, I'm friends with him. I think he's a smart guy. But I do think he was on the wrong side of history of that. But actually, what happened with the New York agreement was a corporate attempted corporate takeover of Bitcoin. We don't know how bad that out. outcome could have been. It could have been very bad. I mean, the code failed. Yeah, the code failed. Right. You know, I just, that was a very risky time. And I think one of the things that potentially, that has been very difficult for that Brian officer himself, and but there has been a support for the contentious forks,

Unknown Speaker  1:13:57  
there was a delayed

Unknown Speaker  1:13:59  
very, took a long time to get seg wit activated. There was support for the New York agreement. The scene, this seemed to be a big push for aetherium the adoption of Bitcoin cash, like I'm just saying, there's lots of things when you start piecing them together. It's a long way from the the world of maximalist. Now, the one thing I will add into that is you're in a very different world as a hodler, maximalist, who isn't contributing to somebody who has a business and they're trying to grow it exactly, but I think you've become conflicted. I think if you're trying to grow a business, you potentially become conflicted of what you think is right for Bitcoin, versus what you would have thought if you just had a day job more hodler

Balaji Srinivasan  1:14:42  
lumic, three or four points on that. So the first is kind of from our earlier point that a lot of the demand for Bitcoin for Bitcoin these days, maybe more than 50% of it comes from crypto trading in general, right. So like, that's something where I'm not sure a lot of folks have taken that on board if their bitcoin price max But but it's an important kind of thing. Important for what reason? Well, important in the sense of what they think is against their interest financially is actually for their interest financially. Like, in the sense of, you know, this thing, you know, these these so and and one way of looking at that, by the way is I don't know if you saw this recent thing where a number of maximalist invested in this company based on ERC. 22. Right. Yes.

Unknown Speaker  1:15:22  
And actually, but, again, that that's misleading, because they're not maximalists. Right. Okay, Charlie Lee's works on Litecoin fluffy works on Mineiro. Samsung mouse has been involved in projects outside of block stream. So then then, and I think, well, Panda will trade bitcoins for bitcoins fine.

Balaji Srinivasan  1:15:38  
And like, actually, you know, I'm on actually on reasonable terms. I'm not I'm not like attacking or anything like that. All I'm saying is, I think you'll find a lot of professed maximalists actually do have other coins. And in fact, many will kind of admit to that if pressed. That's kind of you know, one point but, but it's more that Bitcoin as a reserve currency, the crypto economy actually gains value from the crypto economy. It is it is actually some I think that'll be a very obvious point in five years to go no that definitely though, because we have price discovery when it was just Bitcoin mount Gox had price discovery had trading? Do we know that we wouldn't have more traders just trading Bitcoin? Now what I mean by that is, Bitcoin is the reserve currency of all these exchange associate Bitcoin is like, the thing that every exchange supports. So every every other coin is sort of paying tribute to Bitcoin by being tradable back and forth in it. So let me call it just one piece, the argument that I think that does give a lot of demand for it, okay. The second thing is, from philosophical standpoint, this is this is to me, I can sort of understand the wartime mentality of this right, in wartime, you know, it's like, you know, sometimes principals have to go out the window, you just have to win or whatever. But if you're like, libertarian ish, right, the economy is not zero sum. In fact, that's like, one of the fundamental fallacies you're arguing against, as a libertarian, like, wealth can be created. Everybody can have a smartphone, right? Everybody can have food, like wealth can be created, versus the mentality of anything that's not Bitcoin is bad. Right? Another example is, if you're in crypto, if you're in Bitcoin, well, you know that there's a lot of problems with the Fed, right? And it's on accountability and printing all the money and so on. But how can you be anti fed, but Pro, the regulatory state like pro sec pro this, right? It's the same freaking animal, right? So you know, and so I can identify many contradictions like this, where I don't think that it's it's coherent to be quote, libertarian, but completely zero sum mentality with any other coin respect to Bitcoin, thinking that the SEC is like on net like a good actor? I don't I don't believe that, right. Like, I think that it's a captured regulator, like every major regulator is at least partially captured. And it's not something that's on the side of innovation that the folks aren't democratically elected. Whether you subscribe to a electoral or market theory of accountability, these folks who have career tenure, they both weren't elected and they can't be fired, sacking these institution be legitimate. And yet you see people who are, quote, maximalist trying to push people in front of a train, get them in trouble with regulators. And that's just, I just don't understand

Unknown Speaker  1:18:12  
well, there are there are conflict, there are conflicted

Unknown Speaker  1:18:14  
ideologies, right. There are hypocrisy in that I do see that I do. I have recognized that, because there are people talking about free market. I mean, you've been trolled by a fuckload. relentlessly. Yeah. And you know, it like, I accept it, it is what it is. I deserve it sometimes as well. I do think there are some hypocrisy there. I'm not even sure how I can crystallize it, but I'm still not sure we even addressed tirely my point,

Balaji Srinivasan  1:18:42  
so please, resign. So

Unknown Speaker  1:18:45  
at the same time, some people have been on the wrong side of history with Bitcoin. So there is holding certain opinions, but I think the closed room New York agreement for Bitcoin, right segway to X was a very dangerous time for me. And it's, you know, I was I mean, I still don't can't comprehend it fully. I still haven't understood the weight of it. But I think we can look back now and see that it was a mistake.

Balaji Srinivasan  1:19:10  
Well, so here's here's I kind of think about that. Sooner person you didn't mention was like Steven pair of bitpay. Right? pair posted this graph, where his company was paying like soaring amounts in fees like they were they were on the hook for it. Right. So for lots of like, CEOs, this was a bottom line issue coming out of their pocket on a daily basis.

Unknown Speaker  1:19:30  
That's the point we get him back to the goals and the needs of the business over what is best for Bitcoin. Okay, so let me come to that point.

Balaji Srinivasan  1:19:38  
Many of the CEOs felt that, given that they had millions of Bitcoin users who were using their platform that they were sort of, you know, at least somewhat legitimate in terms of spokespeople for them because these folks have chosen to use your platform, right? And so that, you know, their voice represented not the opinions of one person, but in their sense, the Collective billions of their hundreds of thousands or millions of customers versus one guy tweeting, right? That's like the mental battle. I'm not saying it's always right. But I think there's there's some argument for it. And, you know, here's my take on like the whole Bitcoin civil war or whatever, I haven't blogged this, whatever. But actually think two libertarian principles came into conflict there. And I'm actually glad that we have two chains. So let me explain. So the the BTC side, you know, the whole point for them was an immutable digital gold that neither the state nor corporations can see is they can't mess with no closed room smoking, you know, like kind of session or like, like cigar smoking session could change this. And they won. Because they got a digital gold that could could basically be complete immutable. And by fighting it, one MB, you make 21 mil sacrosanct right. I understand that. I agree with that. I think like a currency that's not printable or usable by the government is a very important libertarian principle. On the other guy's side, from their standpoint, they're coming at it from Okay, exit, right? If there's an unjust group that has control that has a majority, and you're a minority that wants a different economic policy, they got into bitcoin, because they didn't like the Fed, and they wanted a way out. And now suddenly, they had a monetary policy was being imposed on them that they didn't agree with, that they felt was hampering the growth of the system, because they thought, hey, Ron, we're gonna get more transactions, we're gonna have a cash like use case. And so from their standpoint, the libertarian principle they were invoking was exit, which is the right of any free people to, to leave and, and to do something. And so I'm actually like, I actually think both of those are actually legitimate libertarian principles, right? And so, you know, like, I'm glad that you had two communities come from it, that could just practice their own thing. And then, you know, maybe they both succeed, maybe only Bitcoin succeeds. And bch doesn't, you know, I'm like, a positive person. So I wish the best on everybody. But I also like, try to empathize and try and figure out why does somebody who's on the other side of the table thinks something different for me,

Unknown Speaker  1:22:06  
right. So that's just, it's funny, you should say that I've actually spoken to a number of maximalists, in private, who want fundamentally against the fork itself. Like, if you believe this should be different. You believe you got different ideas, go and create your fork, actually, the main issue is the CO opting of the name, which isn't great. And also, the misuse of bitcoin.com, which has been used to mislead people and create confusion, which I actually think is probably more net negative with B cash. I think if they'd had a separate name, they would have been able to, I think, tricking people into thinking someone's Bitcoin, which Jason is just a dumb move, essentially, he says, because basically, you know,

Balaji Srinivasan  1:22:47  
America were talking earlier about, there's like, kind of dogmatic libertarian theory in this reality on like, you know, for example, the free lunches and so on. So the thing is about crypto is, it's set up for people to be able to fork to go their own way to doing this. But you know, the one thing that can't be forked the name, right, the name can't be forked. And so that was actually where the battle was. And in fact, actually, the most arguably centralized two components of the system, namely, the miners, and the developers, were the ones that were at loggerheads the most, right? And everybody else, because they were decentralized enough, they didn't, they weren't like, they didn't mass enough to even be able to, like, like, say anything back. So there's like less squawking on Twitter, but it wasn't like a coherent kind of thing. People talk about pools of users, but there were 1000 different ways to do that. So the name couldn't be forked. And actually, this is something which gets to kind of a deep point. And, you know, again, this is one of these, I wrote all these blog posts during that time, but I didn't put them out. So I should put them out there, right. But really, I think interesting, critical concept is a chain derives value from its backlinks. Okay? So for example, there's folks and these are no coiners and you know, Bitcoin haters, whatever, who would say things like, oh, anybody can fork Bitcoin. So it's not really, you know, like scarce the 21 million limit is not really there and so on. And that has a superficial like truth to it, but it actually doesn't have a deep truth. And the reason there isn't a deep truth is every exchange, every wallet, every piece of software out there has a pointer effectively either implicit or explicit to the current Bitcoin BTC blockchain to accommodate some other chain means another code path. And that's work in the same way that adding a backlink you know, like like a link for in the Google sense his work and so you can think of the value of a chain being all the backlinks that come into it right now, because Bitcoin cash bch was based on the same codebase as BTC. It was relatively easy for somebody to add a backlink, but a they had to add it, which not everybody did, and B that may not want to add it again. Not everybody did. So it had a much smaller set of backlinks than then BTC did, but this is actually A big part of how I think of the invisible defensibility of a coin is the pattern of backlinks. And no one has really map that. But I think it'll be important thing to do in crypto world.

Unknown Speaker  1:25:08  
All right, well, listen, I'm conscious of the time, I'm just about to actually have a look at my phone. Because I got to go get a flight. Yeah, we've officially made my longest ever show. All right, I think we could at least in another couple of hours have hardly done any of my questions. Is that interesting? Fascinating. Actually, I came in this wanting to talk about Coinbase and Bitcoin and I knew I had to, but actually, I've got to say that first hour where we talked about virtual reality, and those was, that was the most interesting part to me. Hopefully, we'll do this again. I'm sure we will. Sure. And I'll hopefully do a time when I haven't got to get a fly, although I won't want to use up so much of your time. But listen, thank you for coming on. Thanks, we will definitely do this again. And

Unknown Speaker  1:25:47  
yes, catch up soon. Thank

Unknown Speaker  1:25:48  
you. All right. All good things come to an end. But what did you think of that? Did you enjoy that do enjoy both parts of the interview with Balaji? You know, on reflection, having listened back again, it's definitely one of my favorite shows. Probably my favorite, I really did enjoy this one. I'm always super interested in exploring sister topics, which I think align with Bitcoin. And I think the more far out the better. And we definitely got far out in the first part of the interview, whether you agree with Balaji view on all coins or not. He's definitely a fascinating person to talk to a great person to interview and it was really good to hear about his time at Coinbase. I would have liked to have covered that a bit more as well. I'm not sure I did a good enough job arguing back on all coins and the whole world of Bitcoin versus shit coins, free markets versus irresponsible marketing. Because then I find it tricky sometimes, like while I'm firmly in the Bitcoin camp, and I've sold my old coins, and I have no desire to buy them. I hope other people don't. At the same time. I kind of find it difficult because there are a bunch of people out there who believe in them. I don't but you know, what should we do? Should this be regulated? Should we destroy the toxicity? Should we destroy through education? Should we allow people to do what they want? I find it a really tricky area, but definitely something that was worth exploring. Anyway, a big thanks to Balaji for coming on. Also, another big thanks to Brad bar Spencer at blockchain capital for letting me use their office to record this. And if you've got any questions do reach out to me. My email address is Hello at what Bitcoin did calm. If you want to support the show, head over to my website. It's what Bitcoin did calm, click on the support section, it'll explain everything you can do, whether it's leaving in review, just listen to the ads, or even becoming a sponsor. It's all up there. I'm gonna be heading back to Bedford in a few days. And then I'm going to be heading out to Wyoming for Caitlin Long's wire hackathon and then I'm going to be out in Palm Springs for the crypto springs event. Hopefully I'll get to meet a bunch of those. Alright, I hope you have a great weekend.

Transcribed by https://otter.ai
