Unknown Speaker  0:01  
Let me assert my firm belief that the only thing we have to

Unknown Speaker  0:11  
remember, just because you're doing a lot more, doesn't mean you're getting a lot more done. Don't confuse movement with progress.

Unknown Speaker  0:21  
We live in a paradoxical time where we have more comfort, but less peace, more connectivity, less connection, more information, but less wisdom. The purpose of this podcast is to explore these natural tensions with independent voices will push our thinking. This is the paradox podcast.

Unknown Speaker  0:42  
me getting kind enough to know how it took me getting cold enough to know I'm not good at it at all. You can learn quite a lot from

Unknown Speaker  0:54  
experience. That's one thing, but something after that, have you the will and determination to do anything about Hey, everyone,

Unknown Speaker  1:04  
welcome to another episode of The paradox podcast. I'm your host Kyle Tibbets for episode number 13. I chatted with angel investor and entrepreneur Balaji Srinivasan about the rise of cloud cities, the Oregon Trail generation, a decentralized model for citizen journalism, why crypto is still underrated and the best piece of advice he's ever received. Balaji was formerly the CTO of Coinbase and the general partner at Andreessen Horowitz. He was also the co founder of earned calm counsel, teller teleport and coin center. He holds a PhD in electrical engineering and a master's in chemical engineering from Stanford University teaches the occasional course there, including an online MOOC in 2013, which reached 250,000 students worldwide. He was the first person to my Twitter feed to sound the alarm on the global pandemic back in January, something I'm personally very grateful for. Balaji is a truly original thinker who's unafraid to speak his mind and someone I've learned a lot from just by following him on Twitter. I hope you enjoy this conversation with Balaji Srinivasan Balaji. Thanks for taking the time to join me on the paradox podcast on your Saturday no less. To kick things off, I want to start with a question. I have this perception, maybe it's perception and reality, or some combination of the two, it feels like things are accelerating and the pace of change is accelerating. What's an area of change that you're most optimistic about? And what's an area of change that maybe you're more pessimistic about?

Unknown Speaker  2:29  
So what I'm optimistic about is technological acceleration for biomedicine, because of COVID, I think we're going to see a radical push towards, for example, things that were blocked for a long time, like telemedicine in the US due to regulatory barriers have not been pushed forward. And, you know, genetic testing, for example, that's now something that's on people's minds. And people are realizing that aging is the number one cause of death, and actually also risk for COVID. So I think we're gonna get more energy on on things like life extension, David Sinclair of Harvard has, has talked about this. So that's the area most optimistic about it feel like we've had a huge positive change in that. What's area of change? I'm most pessimistic about well, it does feel I mean, this is certainly an observation. It's not novel to me. But it does feel that the entire, you know, 20th century is ending. And there were aspects of that order, which were passable, and indeed pleasant and good. You know, most people who grew up in the US, you know, or last 30 4050 years had a reasonably good time of it. And now, I'm not sure that we're going to have a good political order in the sense of there's conflict between folks, there's a lot more polarization, as many people have noted. And the general trajectory of the West, if folks look at where it is relative to Asia, it's not necessarily heading in the right direction right now. So so those are things that I'm more pessimistic about.

Unknown Speaker  3:57  
Yeah, just to synthesize those two thoughts, both the thing you're optimistic about and negative about maybe the connective tissue is that has to do with institutions, right institutions sort of crumbling a little bit. And on the optimistic side, right, we saw, you know, the FDA was blocking a lot of innovation on the health side of things. And that pandemic sort of forced our hand to start to cut a lot of that red tape and bureaucracy that was slowing things down. And so that's an example of an institution being in the way and some reform happening that was sort of unexpected, but actually very positive. But then, on the other hand, to your point around the 20th century ending, it feels like you said, a lot of these institutions that kept order kept peace kept things relatively stable during the last 3040 years. Those are crumbling too. And so we're dealing with a crumbling of institutions that has both positive and negative impact.

Unknown Speaker  4:45  
Yeah, I mean, the thing is, it would have positive impact. If we have a better alternative on the other end. You know, if you disrupt blockbuster and you have a Netflix or you disrupt blackberry and you have an iPhone or a Barnes and Nobles and you have amazon.com Then that's a positive disruption. If you're just disrupting something and you don't have an alternative in place yet, then it might not necessarily be a positive change.

Unknown Speaker  5:09  
Yeah, that makes a lot of sense. And I think a lot of that gets down to having a positive vision for the future. And not only having the vision but the wherewithal and the will to execute on it either within the private sector, whether it's building a startup or innovating within an existing company, or even in public sector, just having the ability to innovate in the governmental sphere, which seems increasingly hard to do. So totally hear you there. I think switching gears a little bit, I just want to get a little bit of background for the audience. Could you share a story from your childhood that sort of strongly influences who you are today?

Unknown Speaker  5:42  
Yeah, when I was in high school, I came across the Fineman lectures on physics. And there are a few books at that time that were influential in my worldview, there is you know, the Fineman lectures, there was a book by Robert chemical on Ramanathan called the man who knew infinity, there was Lee Kuan used book from third world to first, those are all things that have kind of influenced my worldview, I think something I was impressed with was when we finally got an internet connection. And I realized that there were way more books like that out there that I hadn't read. I mean, obviously, the Fineman lectures are are amazing, but I don't think I realized the extent to which it was an open world rather than a closed world till the internet really started working. And that's funny, you know, we're now having generations that have grown up that have never known a time before the internet. And there's this concept of the Oregon Trail generation, which is that group of folks who when you know, we grew up, we played Oregon Trail or whatever, in the computer lab in middle school or high school, but you knew what offline was like, you know, when we grew up, there was a phone book, there was, you know, like a white pages you think, imagine that, like a list of everybody's phone number,

Unknown Speaker  6:55  
you could totally

Unknown Speaker  6:56  
mail to everybody would be considered a huge privacy violation today, right? Yeah. But you know, conversely, though, a search engine at that time being able to stalk anybody that was considered a privacy violation back then for a while, right, knowing something about somebody online, before you spoke to them, was considered kind of weird, and what have you, right? So something I think about a lot is a how much I realized the world was in an open world, and then be how some of the mores from then are flipped now. And things are so different daily rhythms of life are so different than they were in the 90s, even if much of the built environment is the same.

Unknown Speaker  7:31  
Yeah, it almost feels at times, like we sort of live in the internet. We live in the cloud, we have these virtual avatars that we're sort of tending to, and then our offline world is sort of like incidental. And you hear this reference all the time, obviously, in relation to Twitter, where it's like, oh, well, Twitter's not the real world. But then you can make the case that things have flipped. And actually, what happens on Twitter and the cultural discourse there is actually having direct impact on the real world in a very meaningful way. I think one other interesting thing you said, you mentioned the Oregon Trail generation. I think what was interesting about that game, almost as a metaphor is it's obviously a story about people traveling West kind of that pioneering spirit. And I think what I certainly didn't realize when I was playing that game, and maybe fifth or sixth grade in the computer lab, because I don't even think had internet yet. And fifth grade, maybe six or seventh grade, we got it. But we were sort of on the cusp of our own pioneering journey, which was a sort of up into the cloud. Right, right. I don't think we realized how tectonic of a shift that was going to be in our culture, but the Oregon Trail is sort of the perfect sort of microcosmic metaphor for what we're embarking on kind of in the mid to late 90s. Looking back on it.

Unknown Speaker  8:34  
Yes, I think that's true. I think people don't appreciate the extent to which the domain name system was really the reopening of the frontier exactly in the sense that, you know, like, the thing about the frontier was characterized the US up until 1890. And one of the aspects of it was, it presented a degree of equality of opportunity, because at least in theory, anybody could go out west and take a plot of land and turn it into something into a farm into a building into just something of some kind. And the domain name system is like the v2 of that, where anybody can register domain. And you can just start building, there's no building codes, there's nothing that stops you from building, you don't need to get any license from anybody. You can just form pleasing configurations of electrons with your own hands. And that's completely different from the physical world where to even build like an extension to your house or to build a shed or something, you have to get permits. And there's a deadening effect, right. So that's very, very powerful the concept like permissionless innovation, simply because if nothing else, even if permission was 100%, but it introduced a day or two days or whatever of delay that kills the funnel kills the conversion, you know, somebody might not have set up google.com or what have you may not Google is a great example because there's long term project. There's plenty of things that were just side projects that would not have gotten started had there been extra friction on them at the beginning. So DNS kind of reopen the front And I think that the next step after that is going to be virtual reality.

Unknown Speaker  10:04  
That's fascinating. I have a neighbor who's trying to build like a pergola and the amount of hoops that he's jumped through to build a pergola in his own backyard, it shows you the level of friction that gets added in the real world. And like you said, let's say two people bought two domain names in 1998, whether that turned into the digital version of just an empty piece of desert in Nevada, or Las Vegas, was sort of entirely of your own making, because of the permissionless nature of the ability to build on the internet. So that's such a fascinating way to think about it. And actually, it's sort of a great segue into what I wanted to ask about next, which is that I've heard you talk about both on clubhouse, and also Twitter about this notion of cloud countries or cloud cities. And I think you summarized it really well in this tweet, which said, you know how to start a city, build a community in the cloud, organize the economy around remote work, enforce laws with smart contracts, practice in person, norms of civility, simulate architecture, and VR, eventually crowdfund territory and materialize the city into the real world. Can you unpack this idea of yours and where it originated?

Unknown Speaker  11:07  
Sure, I've been thinking about this for a long time. And I'm going to be writing this up more and more, I wrote up something on this back in 2013. But essentially, the idea is that I think this is the next step for technology after starting new companies, or to be more precise, start new company, Google start new community, Facebook, start new currency, Bitcoin aetherium. Start new city, that may be what's next. And the key thing here with this particular set of bullets, is you can start a city cloud first. And that's very different than you know, everything that people normally think about where they normally think about, okay, where are you going to get the land? And how are you going to build it, and so on and so forth. You actually start with the people and the culture first. And you do the architecture in VR, and you've got something which you de risk, right, because you're doing it virtually first. And that allows for a much wider funnel. And it means that, you know, just like, you know, whether you think this is good or bad cryptocurrency brought lots of people into thinking about finance and thinking about economics and micro and macro economics, a lot of people became, you know, Semi Pro economists and traders and finance ears in the same way that, you know, social media turned a lot of people into publishers, I think that VR is going to turn a lot of people to architects,

Unknown Speaker  12:22  
I hadn't even really thought of it that way. That seems like a great application for VR. I feel like we are still searching for its ultimate application. And maybe that's what's kind of coming around the corner. You know, it's interesting, because obviously, I think we both live in California, I don't think a week goes by right on top of California, and he's flirting with the idea of leaving the state and going somewhere else. And maybe it's 10% probability, maybe it's 20% probability. But I think when you have, like we said earlier in the conversation, we have things that are broken systems that are broken institutions, state, local, federal governments that are broken in different ways. People do think about, okay, what is my escape hatch? What does that look like? And I think, the idea of escaping into the cloud first, to organize something that's better before sort of dropping back down on the land to actually create something, it is a fascinating way to think about the new model of creating cities. If you think about the existing cloud communities, whether it's crypto or whether it's any others, are there any that you're particularly bullish on sort of making it to land first as an actual real city? Or do you think of it in a slightly different way?

Unknown Speaker  13:26  
That's a good question. So at least a particular methodology that I'm talking about here is, in a sense, something where you could apply it to any online community, and you could turn a community into a virtual city, and then some fraction of those you might materialize in a physical place. This is what happened, by the way, in the 1800s. us, you know, like, the sort of communes and whatnot arise in the Midwest. I think that some of the stuff that mark letter is doing with the charter cities Institute is really good and worth studying. Some stuff that Maria is doing with new African Renaissance calm these we SM Wi Fi as on Twitter. I think that's really awesome. And then Patrick Friedman as a fund, which is working on this. So these projects are pretty interesting. And any one of them, I'm not sure whether they're going to succeed or not. But I think as a whole, the space is starting to see some good energy.

Unknown Speaker  14:15  
Yeah, it is promising to see and I think I saw the projection that over the next, I don't know some number of hundreds of years, we might see 500,000 brand new cities, I think the lion's share of them would probably be an African Asia as opposed to in North America. But I think there's still a lot of land in North America where you could build tons of new cities, especially if you took this cloud first approach. So I hope it's not limited to one corner of the world, it makes sense to go where sort of the regulatory burden is the least in terms of innovating at the city level, like you said before? What what some of the key benefits be of dwelling in a Cloud City? So let's just do the thought experiment where we zoom 20 years in the future and these exists in various different forms. What would some of the benefits be of living won, and how do you think traditional cities, let's call them the incumbents or, you know, whatever the incumbent San Francisco's, and Moscow's in London's in the world of react, these brand new cities that are springing up all over the world on a cloud first basis.

Unknown Speaker  15:15  
So I think Well, first, simply being able to start a new city, you know, if you have one innovation in that city, for example, you put a line through, you know, the regulation, stopping self driving cars, right, or you make it a city that is highly friendly to stem cells, right, you don't necessarily need funding for the city, what you need is sort of the absence of a barrier. And that doesn't necessarily cost you anything, you kind of jettison, let's say, outmoded, 20th century regulations, similar to the concept of special economic zones, and how successful they've been in Asia. So some of these new cities, the first one you do, you just do, you know, something similar to I don't know, Levittown or something very standard, just to show it can be done, you know, you don't want to be very fancy, because to just simply materialize something out of the cloud is non trivial The first time you do it. But once you've done that a few times, and you feel that the physical logistics and the construction process, and you know, the yield of getting people to migrate digitally, or physically, maybe it's only 10% of those who are in the cloud actually come to the land. Once you have all those kinds of parameters, you know, at least at a reasonable level, then you've got a handle on the logistics of the operation, then I think you should start to think about talking to local and, you know, state and federal and national governments about, hey, before we build the city, because that's the thing that you can have jurisdictional choice, we can materialize this in one of 700 places. Okay, before we build it, why don't we get a memorandum of understanding or a letter of intent with the government of this area? That says it can be a special economic zone or a special Innovation Zone that various regulations don't have to initially apply this area? I think that's very new. That's a

Unknown Speaker  16:52  
new idea. Completely. Do you think there could be new ownership models around cities, I'm almost thinking of like a new cap table for a city, it feels like right now we have this system where if you're a property owner, and your city's doing well, there's lots of appreciation, you see the appreciation and the price of your home, that's kind of been the model that we've had for decades or hundreds of years, give us an alternative model where maybe it's crypto based, or whatever, we're actually ownership in the city can be purchased at a low entry price for those that are at the frontier and move first, either into the cloud or from the cloud to the land. What would that sort of look like?

Unknown Speaker  17:25  
Yeah, so I've thought a lot about this, and basically a new city as a crypto read. So here's the the critical concept, the critical concept is, it's sort of like a Singapore style combination of ideas from, you know, left and right. For example, Singapore forces everybody to save in an HSA a health savings account. But everybody can then spend from that HSA as if it was like a bank account or a credit card. It's not restricted, you know, the terms of spending, or rather, it's capitalistic within medicine, but you're forced to save for medicine. Okay, so insurance still exists. But but that's like their first line of defense. So similarly, something I've thought about is, if you did a new city, you do it as a crypto read, where people do not own their own land that they're on. Instead, they own a certain number of shares of the city as a whole. Hmm,

Unknown Speaker  18:17  
who owns the land in that model,

Unknown Speaker  18:19  
like the corporation that is basically building the city or it could be frankly, the, you know, it could be on chain, you know, we have to figure out just the the interface between the chain and the land. But let's say a corporate entity. Here's the point. What that means is, as the city grows, you have equity alignment with everybody else in the city.

Unknown Speaker  18:37  
Yeah, there's align incentives in a way that right now, obviously, we see in San Francisco, the misaligned incentives between the NIMBYs and the NBS on building more housing or not, and we sort of end up with this deadlock politically around being able to do anything. I think, in this alternative universe where these cloud cities exist and are proliferated across the world, you have potentially much more aligned incentive structures around choosing to do things whether it's adding more housing to the community, or changing the nature of the community, or changing the competitive advantage of the community. from an economic standpoint, it seems like the incentives would be much more aligned. This actually reminds me of an interesting Twitter interaction, maybe three or four years ago with Marc Andreessen, your former partner at a16z. Back when he was tweeting, and the debate was like, is Silicon Valley gonna remain tied to location or not, or will 1000 Silicon Valley's bloom all over the world? I think we've gotten a sense over the last three or four years since then that location is getting much less strong of a poll, even though there's still a network and an ecosystem that is still pretty strong. But I think the point that he was making in that Twitter conversation was, yeah, you can have other Silicon Valley's and one Silicon Valley is the biotech Silicon Valley, because the regulations around that are very pro innovation. And then one city is the crypto Silicon Valley and then once it so it seems like that aligns pretty neatly with your concept of cloud cities and at some point in the future, these two ideas collide and that's how maybe Silicon Valley saves itself from becoming this place that's just choking on its own cost of living. Because it can diversify across the world. Maybe that's an optimistic take. But

Unknown Speaker  20:09  
yeah, so. So I think that, you know, like to ughelli dialectic thesis antithesis, synthesis, right. So thesis is, it's actually pretty good to have just a single place that people can go right. antithesis, well, there's a huge incentive to physically leave Silicon Valley in San Francisco, especially now, thanks to what's basically happened with COVID and whatnot. It's almost like a armwrestling match where one arm just completely went slack. Right? You know, the only reason to be in San Francisco and Silicon Valley was the physical social network. Because, you know, the physical plant was not that attractive. I mean, I guess if you feel like the outdoors or something, there's, there's definitely something to that what was unique was the physical social network, like the the people who were there. It wasn't like, for example, there was platinum in the hills of San Francisco. And that was a critical thing that was keeping us there. Right? This is a really important point, by the way, you know, in 1800s, when you're talking about mining or farming or something like that, that's extremely location based very much so that there's a land is good for it, or it's not. Whereas technology, internet stuff can in theory be done anywhere. And now it is because you know, the huge push for remote work, thanks to COVID. So going back to that galleon point, that thesis, antithesis, synthesis is, I think we're gonna have you know, the internet is the next Silicon Valley. And in many ways, folks in tech, really spend 12 hours a day online anyway. Right. So it's not like such a huge leap to think about the internet as the next Silicon Valley. Or, you know, even more broadly, though, I think the internet is to America, what America was to the UK, or the UK was to Greece. And okay, yeah,

Unknown Speaker  21:42  
unpack that idea more, cuz that's, that's right.

Unknown Speaker  21:44  
So one way I think about that is, in 2013, I taught this MOOC course in a had, you know, 250 300,000 students, and most of them are outside the US, but they all spoke English. And I noticed something very interesting about my interactions with them. They didn't know things that you would think of as American references. For example, they didn't know the New York Knicks, they didn't know hot dogs, or they may have heard of hot dogs, but they weren't like extremely familiar with it. They didn't know physical landmarks like the Washington Monument or something like that. But what they did know was at the time, a good guy, Greg in scumbag Steve. They knew Reddit memes. Yeah. All right. And they talked about this stuff with an accent, but they were completely familiar, totally conversing with internet culture. And that's when I realized that the English speaking internet, you know, Reddit and Hacker News and Twitter and so on is to the physical us with the physical us was the physical UK and the physical UK was to Greece, it is something that it's also English speaking about, okay, I know, Greece wasn't but you know, it's, it's English speaking. And it certainly shares cultural roots. But it's as if, you know, folks went so far west, that they ended up in the cloud, right, like starting in

Unknown Speaker  22:57  
San Fran fascinating. And it's interesting,

Unknown Speaker  22:59  
you think of a visual metaphor of the clouds sort of opening up above San Francisco, and then a bunch of people going into the cloud, right? The Rana continent, but we reopen cloud, and how far we can push that metaphor, VR really opens it further. Because the thing about the cloud is, it's a frontier, that's a non contentious frontier, the land is truly infinite, you're not taking it away from somebody else, when you register a new domain name or set up a new DNS, you know, you're truly creating value from nothing, and you're just hitting keys on a keyboard. So it's harder to argue that you are depriving somebody else of that territory. And that's very powerful, you know, a non rivalrous frontier. And I think we can do that with VR and the internet, I think we can then potentially do that with the sea. I think we can ultimately do that with space. And you know, this something I think a lot about, by the way, you know, the four places you can build the land, the internet, the sea, and space. And you know, the land has 7 billion people worldwide, the internet now has two to three to 3 billion prior to the current COVID thing. cruise ships had two to 3 million people on them. And let's say the total number of people on the ocean at any given time, you can estimate at around 2 million, and then you've got, you know, sub 10 in space, right? So it gives you a sense of the traction of various frontiers. Obviously, were functional in the land incidents at two to 3 billion. That's pretty big. The sea is only a two to 3 million. So it's one 1,000th the scale and then space is just we're just obviously getting started with like 10 people there.

Unknown Speaker  24:26  
Yeah, then estimate small by comparison.

Unknown Speaker  24:29  
That's right. So an interesting question is can we use the internet to reopen these other frontiers? like can we do some kind of arbitrage there where you group on the internet, you reopen land and you reopen land to reopen the sea and you reopen land in the sea to reopen space? You know, something like that? Right? So you start thinking about as like a puzzle itself? Mm hmm.

Unknown Speaker  24:48  
Yeah. It's almost hard to imagine a scenario where we expand into space into the sea, and obviously continue to reorganize land at the city and country level without the internet sort of being The operating system by which that plays out, I even think with COVID-19, which we'll talk about, in a moment, the level of international collaboration. It's like something we've never seen before. It's like a Manhattan Project, but probably on steroids in terms of the number of people that are working on it. And so the internet is the vehicle by which that becomes possible. And I really find your analogy around the UK to the US, the US to the cloud, real interesting. UK is obviously a tiny island. And they ended up having very imperial ambitions across the world, because they ran out of space. And then the US was sort of a fork off of the UK, same language, similar values, all of that. But now the United States is having its own problems, people are escaping into the cloud. This is a very fascinating idea that I've never I've never thought of before.

Unknown Speaker  25:42  
That's right. It's basically a frontier, where, you know, we've probably had the cloud flipping meaning you spend more of your time in the cloud than you do on the land.

Unknown Speaker  25:50  
Oh, 100%. Switching gears a little bit want to talk about citizen journalism and COVID-19. And kind of the intersection between those two things. I guess I'll start by saying that myself and probably hundreds of thousands of other people that follow you, people that don't follow, you certainly owe you a debt of gratitude for sounding the alarm early on COVID-19, when the reports coming out of China were suspicious, to say the least, anecdotally, I think I started wearing and 95 mask. At the end of January, I'm Bart on my commute into the city from the East Bay, all until basically until my last day in the city, which was pretty much the end of February. I haven't been back into the city since I think February 27th. So the only reason why I was doing that. And the only reason why at one point, there were a couple weeks there, I was the only person on BART wearing a mask. Because this, of course was when a dictate from our governmental overlords was do not wear a mask, they did not work. I didn't believe that, then I certainly don't believe it now. And so I bought like two or three and 95 at Home Depot. And I was wearing them sort of beautifully for that full month, until I until I pulled the plug on going in. So personally, I very much appreciate you sounding an alarm in your tweets. But how are you able to spot that the prevailing narrative on this was so wrong so early? I mean, it seemed like maybe December, but certainly by January, you are on this pretty much first.

Unknown Speaker  27:08  
So I think December was too early to have any signal in the US, I think, but the lockdown of Wu Han was an undeniable signal that lots of people saw. The thing about it, I think was I took it more seriously than just another news event. And the reason being because China is not known for just sacrificing economic growth. It feels like a completely different world now six months ago, but basically the entire legitimacy of the regime and the government is based on 40 something years of huge economic growth that they've delivered. And that's a social contract, essentially, for the public, for them to shut down the economy meant that this was something they thought of as so serious, that I didn't know how bad the virus was, we were seeing crazy videos coming out of there, I still can't fully reconcile that with what has happened in the US because you know, you had folks being at least reports of folks dropping down on the street, and so on and so forth. And one of the things was you can tell because it wasn't like the Chinese government was going to confirm those videos. And it certainly didn't seem like a Western news outlets are really that interested in it, for whatever reason, they just kind of thought of is, oh, this crazy thing happening in China. And part of it, I think, is that Silicon Valley really has a healthy respect for what the Chinese can do. This is not to say, certainly, they've become increasingly totalitarian. Unfortunately, over the last few years, it was it was actually a more open society, pre 2016, you know, not fully open, certainly but but now it's becoming more and more closed with a lot of obviously negative things happening there. But just focusing on the tech for a second, they you know, they've built world class companies WeChat, or Tick tock, those are actually better than the American products. Do. I think that America can build a tic Tock competitor. Sure I do, you know, especially now that it's been built, and now that's out there, the UX is out there, people know it works. I think banning Tick Tock such that the data isn't going to China is potentially a reasonable move. But the point being that they're not really a developing world country, they're not a poor country in a way that, you know, some folks may sort of residually think of them and for them to be struggling with COVID was a huge signal. So that was kind of number one. And then number two is this is a kind of an important thing. A lot of people when they read media reports, you know, some people just take them on face value, then another group thinks of themselves as sophisticated and they will discount what's in the press by 50% or something. But something I've learned over my life is that the press can sometimes be wrong by 1000 decks or more. Okay, so some examples, you know, Bitcoin is dead. Well, actually, no Bitcoin went from $10 or $1 to $10,000. Right, so they're off by 1000 x, or Facebook will never make a profit. That was literally an article in early 2015 fish or they paid

Unknown Speaker  29:49  
too much for Instagram. Obviously, they didn't Instagram as a standalone business would be massive, hundreds of billions or at least 100 billion dollars or and Paul Krugman said the internet was never gonna happen, right like I mean, that's That was not even that long ago that he said that and then you're done.

Unknown Speaker  30:03  
That's right. That's right. And same with COVID. It was like, you know, no handshakes is just the only thing that was useful about that particular article was just that it captured a particular tone of condescension towards the outgroup. That had nothing to do with it was basically immediate people condescending towards the tech out group, even though it endanger their own lives, you know, right. And this was something, you know, just for background for your listeners who don't know what this is, in mid February recode, published an article, you know, called no handshakes, please, essentially paid into tech people with paranoid for doing, you know, what we now call social distancing, and so on. And it essentially a bunch of folks saying, oh, the viruses contained and it's selected these folks who were like local government officials, or whatever. And they never run a retraction or correction or apology for this thing, that, frankly, endanger lives. Instead, what they did was they spent weeks and months, you know, first ignoring it, and then going and playing everybody else. Oh, my God, you know, Fox News got it wrong. Now, absolutely. Fox News, pick up a lot of things wrong. So in many ways, what happened was bad memes. Like, oh, it's just the flu, or masks don't work, or the virus has been contained. These bad memes started with folks in the mainstream media. And then they filtered out to Fox and so on. And they're still being repeated there. But the patient zero was, you know, like BuzzFeed and Washington Post perspectives. And you're so involved Rico.

Unknown Speaker  31:30  
Yeah, there's a lot of revisionist history going on here clearly, because the same folks that basically created or perpetuated these memes at the outset, and are now criticizing the people that still are buying into them, because there's maybe a 60 day or a 90 day delay. And so you saw folks and not to call anybody out specifically about a local congressman here, he posted a tweet that was like Do not wear masks. And then it was three days later, 180 degree narrative flip. And it's if you don't wear a mask, you're killing grandma. So, of course, no one believes anything anymore, because it's hard to know what to believe I have sympathy for people that are even skeptical of the mass thing, even though I believe that obviously if you look at the societies that are wearing masks, whether it's Singapore or whether it's Japan or what have you, those societies have fared way better than the ones that do not wear masks. I think the evidence is sort of overwhelming that in aggregate, they work. I empathize with people that just don't trust the media for that reason. It's hard not to empathize

Unknown Speaker  32:24  
with them. The fundamental issue is that what is selected for is a lecturing hectoring condescending tone of total certainty because there's no incentive for correction. Right? their business model is literally marketing's themselves as the truth, right? The New York Times runs ads calling themselves the truth. But the problem with that is, well, did you print something false? Oh, no, well, then it's kind of off brand to admit a correction, a correction is considered a humiliation. Whereas with something like get, if you get a pull request, that's actually considered good, you know, you want software to be actively developed, it's assumed that there's hundreds of errors, some large and some small in the thing. And it's important to be constantly revising it and improving it right. Not to say that there aren't serious bugs. But, you know, generally speaking, a project under active development, something you trust more than one that claims to have just, you know, being complete for all time. So I think one of the big issues here is it revealed the extent to which these folks who call themselves very certain about things really don't know what they're talking about. They're just kind of repeating experts. And the problem here is that there isn't any capability to do technical diligence. And when there isn't, then you do purely social diligence. Right? That's really the core issue is, we have folks who cannot do technical diligence, writing about technical topics. That's a fundamental issue. And there's others, but that's a very, very important one. And then what happens is that's happening without the asterisks and the qualifications, people should basically be like, you know, when they say, I'm not a lawyer, you should say, I'm not a biologist, but Brian, or I'm not a, you know, computer scientist, but this is not to be extremely credentialed. That's not what I'm actually saying. You could be somebody who didn't even have a high school degree and was a self taught computer scientist, right? Yeah. However, if you lack a technical background in an area, and then you're constantly talking about it to a mass audience, then you have to do some kind of, you know, huge reversal. That's what's led to the present moment.

Unknown Speaker  34:28  
Yeah. And I mean, this is called the paradox podcast. And I think it's, it's interesting to highlight different paradoxes that are all around us. I think. One is that whenever you do rarely see a journalist put in a retraction now and really put a retraction. Now, I don't mean like, the lie gets a billion retweets, and then the reply with the correction gets to, I mean, they really actually go out there and put their credibility on the line. It does the exact opposite of what people think it does within the realm of journalism. It builds tons of credibility, like you said, when there's people contributing to an open source software project using GitHub. And there's changes and fixes, that's healthy. That's what you want. That's actually literally we think about like speech in this country, the marketplace of ideas is that it's engaging with ideas that you're either mildly uncomfortable with or you disagree with. So you can edit and tweak your own thinking with new information. The problem is on the journalism front, right, like you said, there's no incentive to do it. It's sort of like the rule is don't apologize, don't retract. And people that are looking for honesty in journalism, they can't wait to praise, you know, a reporter that pose a really honest retraction. And to me when I see that, that gives them infinitely more credibility. So yeah, it's sad that we sort of are where we are. I've heard you talk about a more decentralized model for journalism. I think we're seeing the beginnings of that. I think what you did with COVID-19, and your own reporting, how do you see that model developing? And how can we compensate not only citizen journalists, but journalists that leave the institutions I saw yesterday that andrew sullivan is leaving New York Magazine to start is on substack? How do we facilitate more of that? So there's more voices in the discussion that are doing quality journalism and citizen journalism?

Unknown Speaker  36:02  
Yeah, so I actually tweeted on this, if you go to biology s.com, there's Toriel there on how to gradually exit Twitter. And essentially, this is a paid newsletter, right? So it's something where you can self host. And then we can do is start networking websites together. And that's a new concept, right? Like, currently, the way you think about websites connecting to each other is either a link, or it's maybe at the API level, it's either extremely low overhead or extremely high overhead. But you could imagine much more traffic between sites where essentially a website was considered to be analog of a profile. Mm hmm. And so now you're fully sovereign, nobody can D platform you or anything like that. And your domain is like your profile. But we start rebuilding a new kind of link structure, and connective tissue between websites.

Unknown Speaker  36:51  
It seems almost like sort of the syndication model back when I was 19, or 20, I interned for a company that did am talk radio, which sounds really anachronistic now. But they had certain radio personalities that were part of the company and they would syndicate out write other content to fill all the time slots, it seems like you could have a syndication model where some of the best journalist citizen journalists, experts, what have you, and these could be full time or this could be part time work, right, where someone has an expertise that's outside of their day job. But their content can get syndicated across this new network of news websites in a way that allows for there to be more distribution, more reach and maybe better monetization. Is that kind of a good analogy for what you're thinking about.

Unknown Speaker  37:31  
Yeah. So I think a critical concept is that Chris Dixon Singh have come for the tools Jay, for the network. Mm hmm. So we would start this community first by having a critical mass of folks that have their own, you know, paid newsletter slash website, and then we would go from that to start networking them together. And when I say networking them together, it can be a joint RSS feed to start. But ideally, you want to be able to interact with somebody on another website as easily as you can by hitting the like button. Yep. However, you might have a moderator of that connective tissue, who is elected by that decentralized community, for example, right? One of the biggest issues with Twitter is the code on Twitter is more like the laws of physics than the laws of a government. Meaning it defines how particles smashed into each other. Right? But it doesn't, it doesn't, you know, dictate any standards of behavior really, you know, you can yell at someone scream at someone, attack them be hostile to them be sarcastic. I think there's an alternative where we start to build a community that has physical levels of civility, yeah, online, right. And actually set that as a first class goal from the beginning, that you know what one of the bad things is that Twitter is now becoming real life, right? Twitter's incivility, and mob behavior and craziness is leaking into the physical world. And so it may be when you talk about physical norms of civility, this sort of Oregon Trail generation has to remind people what that was, you know, and I think we'd have to build that online. And you start to get these decentralized media communities that become essentially like digital cities in embryo and then maybe they can go and actually tear lies in the physical world, like I was talking about.

Unknown Speaker  39:10  
Yeah, it's totally fascinating. Think about that. On a related topic, but slightly different cut of the same idea. You had a tweet where you talked about every citizen is now a journalist or not equal to a journalist, every company is now media company. There are no double standards anymore. on that second point around every company is now a media company, in the realm of startups and building your own company from scratch. How do you think this notion that every company is now a media company applies? And I guess what I specifically mean is, how much should startups be investing in building sort of their own internal media operation or I'm in marketing, so the way I think of it is building your own own marketing channels. So you can communicate directly with an audience versus constantly paying for access through whether it's Facebook or whether it's advertising on someone else's podcast or whether it's getting a placement in someone else's news. letter? How do you think about that as it interrelates with the startup world and building companies and building an audience around your company?

Unknown Speaker  40:07  
Well, I do think that it is now possible as a tech person, to never talk to an employee of a media corporation or legacy media Corporation and still build a billion dollar business. Indeed, it's arguably the best approach. The Jason has talked about this, a bunch of other investors talk about this navall, you know, Ben, and so on. It's simply not in your interest to talk to an employee of a media Corporation, because they're competitors of the tech industry, and they're very hostile in general. Now, this is a general rule. There's always exceptions. But as a general rule, you shouldn't be giving away free content, you know, you should think of it as, hey, how does this advance of my community or my company or the projects, I think about Do I have editorial control? This is an interesting thing, where you know, Gen Z coming up is pinballing media corporations from below what that means is all of them want to be YouTube influencers, all of them have their own channels. And so they often don't just say, Yes, sure, go ahead reprint my content, they'll say, hey, link to it, or pay me and that's very new. Because the thing is, there's different norms for how media corporations interact with each other, versus how they interact with, quote, their subjects, you know, and if I think is, when you talk about like, the journalist, subject relationship, subject has two meanings. One is like the subject of article the other is like, subject in the sense of someone to be ruled. Yeah,

Unknown Speaker  41:28  
like a king in their and their subjects. Right,

Unknown Speaker  41:30  
exactly right. And this interesting overlap there. So we're an employee of a media Corporation typically thinks of themselves as having rights to do things to you that you can't do them. And that's actually ending now it was everybody being a citizen journalist. But coming back up to this point, a media Corporation will not simply go and paste content from another media Corp on its site, it needs to get permissions, right, it will sort of have a degree of professional courtesy in between folks who are employees of other media corporations. And so I think a very important thing is going to be to turn people into personal media, corporations. substack is like one version of this, where you're actually getting paid to write certainly Twitter and the whole influencer culture is is part of this as well. But what's your piercer media Corporation, well, someone can't just copy your content and paste it, they have to actually license it from you. Mm hmm. And you start kind of adopting all of these sort of norms, of being like a journalist being like a photojournalist being like, reporter and putting that into code where you know, whatever you need, you want to generate, like a Getty Images, style things. So people can buy images from your site, you want to have licensing terms, all of that I'm sure it can be done, I think substack is probably going to roll out a bunch of those types of things. And that's a very different way of thinking about things because the back of the house is not usually suggested, you know, one of my points is, media corporations are not the Free Press, you're the Free Press, right? As a citizen, you are the person who's supposed to hold everybody accountable, not just like tech companies, oil companies, but also media companies and everybody and their employees. And so that sort of sleight of hand that equated a particular multibillion dollar corporation with the free press is sort of like what's good for GM is good for America. That's not necessarily the case. Right? So I think that this sort of rediscovery of the fact that every citizen is equal to a journalist, I think that's a very important thing. Now, you know, you'll get some counter arguments, I have folks counter arguing on Twitter. But for the most part, if you believe that a single developer can build a Minecraft, or a Bitcoin, or an early Facebook or an early Dropbox, I believe in the citizen journalist for the same reason, I believe in the solo developer.

Unknown Speaker  43:31  
And maybe the way to square the circle a little bit. And just to maybe take the other side argument for a moment, even though I'm sympathetic to everything you just said, maybe the best thing we can do for journalism is actually to have this rebalancing of power and sort of this healthy competition between citizen journalists and more traditional journalists from the mainstream institutions. And I think that if you have the shift in power, and you have a rebalancing, and you have a check and balance on the Fourth Estate by, I had a conversation with Gary tan a couple episodes ago about the Fifth Estate, which is what you're talking about, which is the rise of the citizen journalist. And I think that's actually going to be good for institutional journalism as well, in the sense that it might finally force their hand to reform internally and maybe go back to some of their roots, that were more about doing the hard work and trying to keep an eye on folks in power, and not just dunk on people on Twitter and build your own audience and fit every story into a pre existing narrative like they did in that recode article where the article was already written, it was gonna be an anti tech piece, and it's just like, how do I put the pieces together to make that happen? Maybe the optimistic case, and I can be a little bit pollyannish here is that actually, the rise of citizen journalism might also reform traditional journalism as well, if it rebalances the power as it should?

Unknown Speaker  44:45  
Yeah. So I'm actually skeptical about journalism being reformed, per se by this. What I think we actually move towards though I understand that's kind of a hopeful vision, I think we move towards a different equilibrium, which is Oracle's and advocates. Okay. So Oracle's are like crypto Oracle. So one way of thinking about it is many articles today are wrappers around, you know, box scores or ticker symbols or tweets, right? You know, so sports articles wrapper around box scores, financial articles are often wrappers around tickers, like so. And so price was up today at the close, you know, that kind of stuff. And many articles are wrappers around tweets. And so those are three examples of large classes of content, which are essentially prompted given the input of this data stream, right, this feed of data, we generate a verbal narrative, there's actually a company called narrative science that does this automatically. So it'll turn your Google Analytics report, for example, or your financial spreadsheets into color commentary. Hmm. Which is interesting, because what it does is it gives a verbal overlay that looks at the most interesting trends and the biggest numbers, you know, in December, we set record numbers for this, but we were down on so and so in Oregon, because of XYZ factor, right? That kind of thing. So one concept, then is you have an existing equilibrium where there's a verbal layer on top of the data layer, right? The data layer is the facts, you know, people are not disputing the box score, or the ticker, or the fact that the tweet exists. Right? Right, let's say, and this is important, right? Twitter is now actually, you know, less trusted than it was even a few days ago, do these hacks. But for the most part, people think that if something appeared@twitter.com under this account, Twitter itself didn't edit it, and this person said it, whether or not it's true, though, who said, what, when? And often, where if it's geo stamped, that's like four of the five W's, who, what, when, where, why, and how, but it's six, include the how you get the raw facts of who did what, when, and often where, and the context often gives you why and sometimes you even have to how in the trivial sense of Did someone posted from Twitter for desktop or, you know, iPhone or something like that? What's my point? Point is, given that raw stream of facts, you can generalize that to the concept of crypto Oracle's, which are cryptographically signed feeds of facts that are inputs to prediction markets, and I think we're gonna get thousands of crypto Oracle's and the future is Oracle's and advocates, where you have sites that are advocates, meaning just pure unapologetic activists, then take those feeds, and they craft a narrative from those facts. Yeah, so this happened at this time, I can prove it by reference to this cryptographically signed thing, therefore, we should do x. Right, here's

Unknown Speaker  47:24  
how here's how you should think about it, given the facts that the officer has already confirmed.

Unknown Speaker  47:29  
That's right. So Oracle's and advocates right. Now, to your other point about, like holding folks accountable. And so I think that has to be sort of like a, something where everybody's got the gun pointed at each other, so to speak, right? Like, right,

Unknown Speaker  47:41  
mutually assured. doxxing or destruction? Something? Yeah.

Unknown Speaker  47:44  
Or journalism? Right, you know, in the sense of, it cannot be something where a media Corporation has a right that a citizen does not, right, that's not legitimate. So So long as speaking truth to power and so on includes that proviso that a citizen journalist is equal, then you're in good shape. And I think that's a very important point. Because just even the concept of media corporations, people, just don't talk about them enough. Because there's actually two kinds, right? There's legacy media corporations and social media corporations. And we do need to hold both them accountable.

Unknown Speaker  48:17  
Yeah, I think people like to just say, I'm a journalist. This is the first amendment, that's it, but the point that they work, and they're employees of corporations, just like any other employee of any other Corporation gets lost in the mix. And I think that was the point. The third point in your tweet around, there are no double standards anymore, is to again, rebalance things and to make sure that citizens have the same rights as journalists. And if that's the case, then you should have a more informed populace, you should have better information that gets put out into the ether, you should have better news articles to get written in general, because again, there's a rebalancing of how things are.

Unknown Speaker  48:49  
An important point, by the way, is a lot of this is based on brussell conjugation where there's a formal double standard that one can opt into, you know, for example, if you join the military as a private, you will take orders from a general but not vice versa, right. That's something that both parties have opted into, for their mutual benefit that they kind of organized in this hierarchical thing. There's a double standard there, but it's an explicit and formal double standard. There's also However, an implicit double standard that's kind of, you know, the concept of Russell conjugation. And the idea there is, you know, you docks and she leaks, but then your times investigates, right. And that is something where the same action is considered legitimate or illegitimate based on who does it as opposed to what is being done is license that is given by poetic license. And once you start looking for that, and you see that in Article, you'll see that everywhere, right? It's it's basically something where the use of the right adverbs and adjectives can describe the exact same thing in either a legitimate or D legitimizing way. And it will sort of melt people's brains because, you know, just as an example, it is okay for an employee of a media corporation to vitriolic Lee criticized Employees of tech companies online, but not vice versa. And the terms that are used for that, oh, if you object to it, well, you're thin skinned, you are fragile. You're this, you're that, right? But they'll claim, oh my god, you know, this is so crazy. I'm being stalked and doxed and whatnot. Now, the issue is, of course, that anybody who is attacked in the press will also have crazy people stalking them, you know, and doxxing them. And that's what it is to be attacked, right? Like you have, you have thousands of people going after you and digging through your stuff or whatever. So it's something where it's a highly asymmetric, but that asymmetry comes from a double standard that's embedded in language. Anyway, I think that a lot of this stuff is now starting to be identified, and it's starting to move towards the citizen journalism concept. I do think it's important to have a vision for the medium to long term future, which is less adversarial. And what does that look like sort of like a tech media, you know, reconciliation or something, I think tech wants media to share our values and media wants tech to share our resources. And there's something there, there's potentially a win win. And so what do I mean by our values? So, you know, for example, immutable money, infinite frontier, eternal life. Okay, so Bitcoin Mars life extension, and that's slogan, right? You could have others, like, live forever or die. That's one I'm fond of. And the thing about it is we talk about faster COVID testing, or you talk about fusion energy to stop climate change, we talk about self driving cars, reduce traffic fatalities, there's a lot of overlap in terms of goals. And what we want to do is find folks who support that in terms of their value sets, you know, they're basically technological progressives. And I think that those are the folks that we want to fund to make CEOs of their own personal media corporations that our values aligned. And I think that starts to reconcile this where you go from the sort of adversarial phase of 2013 to 2019, to a new relationship. So, you know, let me pause here.

Unknown Speaker  51:59  
I think that sounds great. I think the reason why moving towards that new future, that new relationship is important is because the stories we tell ourselves as a culture as individuals, as society, anything right, really impact what we actually end up going to build, right? If we're telling a story, that life extension, or infinite frontiers or getting them that those things aren't possible, if they're sort of mocked as a sort of stupid over optimism of the tech elite, then we're definitely not going to pull it off, not because it's not possible, but because we just won't believe it's possible, the belief that it's possible is integral to actually making these things happen. I think if we reach a more productive relationship between the tech community and the media, I think it will mean that we can accomplish more of what we all want to accomplish at the end of the day. I

Unknown Speaker  52:45  
think that's right. And I think that means kind of building a tech powered media, where we recruit those folks who are aligned with values, both from the US and overseas and so on, because tech is international. And yeah, you know, to give three examples of that, by the way, you know, the Kinect was inspired by seeing Minority Report. And I believe that Oculus came out of Ready Player One. And I believe that gates did the, you know, cheap toilets in Africa, in part by seeing Nicholas Khrushchev's article on the need for that, right. Those are three examples that are pretty big ones that I'm familiar with, where there's an inspiration that came in this fashion. And, you know, there's an interesting model where you have a writer like, imagine somebody like Mike Harrington, right, who did TechCrunch in this very important period in the mid 2000s. You know, he himself probably inspired, you know, billions of dollars in value creation, where someone saw an article there, I was, like, Wow, this is awesome, and went and started their own thing. Yeah. Without that, right. So what would be interesting is if he had a relationship with a bunch of funds, where folks who wanted to start something based on this would fill out a form like the yc application or equivalent, and then he would get a cut of the investment if an investment was made. And if the equity, you know, if the exit happened. So for example, somebody, you've read an article in fusion, okay, for your outlet, and you've only got 1000 readers, but one of them is somebody from, you know, MIT, who is actually capable of building this new fusion technology. And they submit an application to yc or another, you know, firm that is set up to do this, and they get accepted. And so within about three months, the author of that fusion article gets actual cash in the bank, because they get a cut of the investment, and then maybe five years or 10 years, they get a huge slice of money if that fusion energy investment is actually successful. So that's a model where the folks who write inspiring and technically accurate content that actually creates wealth for society actually get a piece of that,

Unknown Speaker  54:47  
right. They get to share in the upside, and the incentives are realigned, which is important and the incentives are realigned.

Unknown Speaker  54:53  
That's exactly right. So you know, as opposed to right now, where essentially there's an incentive for trying to get a movie that liked analysis. Look, I mean, look, there's a huge difference between constructive versus destructive criticism. And constructive criticism typically comes from a place of alignment of some kind. Now, to be clear, there's tons and tons of criticisms, I have a Facebook or what have you. But there's a difference between, okay, we need to make it more private, we need to make it more decentralized. We need to give more user control and so on. Versus on, hey, it needs to become more oppressively, controlling over user behavior and happy those are two very different angles and censorship,

Unknown Speaker  55:28  
more censoring the people that we don't actually want to speak. That's right. I think that sounds great. And I'm optimistic that hopefully we can move in that direction. But I guess Only time will tell over the next three to five years or more. The last portion of the podcast, these are questions that I asked every guest, you can take them in any direction that you want. The first is just a riff on that now famous Peter teal interview question. What's something that you believe that most people don't? I'm sure you have many answers to this question. So maybe pick one that's different than what we've already already discussed.

Unknown Speaker  55:57  
I think that, you know, cryptocurrency will be seen as the most important thing happening in the 2010s. But future historians, that's a lot of things that's out competing, it's sort of like how if we think about the 90s. Now, what was the most important thing happening? We do think it was the internet? Yeah. However, at the time, that was not certainly widely appreciated, because obviously, there were political things going on. I mean, look, the fall of the Soviet Union was a big deal, right? That's 1991. But much of the stuff that happened in the US, there were obviously events that were national events. But in terms of what had very lasting long term significance. If you have one thing in the history books, it's going to mention that

Unknown Speaker  56:35  
right? Yep.

Unknown Speaker  56:36  
And I think in the same way, cryptocurrency is going to be thought of in retrospect, as the most important thing that happened in the 2010s.

Unknown Speaker  56:42  
One follow up question there. So in the universe where that scenario plays out, what happens between now and say, 2030, that makes that possible? What happens in terms of innovation? Or use cases or value props for for crypto broadly? What goes right, I guess, is the question.

Unknown Speaker  57:00  
Because, right? Well, I mean, it's already kind of going right. And since if it's at 100 billion or whatever, but I think what we need his crypto to start to be baked into applications so that it's being used under the hood for things, you know, and it is already starting to be used. And this is important that people don't get speculation was installation, meaning crypto is not purely a computer science thing, you need also an install in people's heads to value this stuff like you value $1, for example, you know, if I hold a blue piece of paper in front of you, that's not considered to have value. But if I hold a green piece of paper, your object recognition module kicks in, and you're like, Oh, this says value, right? You've been trained by thousands of television shows, movies, personal interactions, are to treat the green piece of paper as having value, whereas the blue piece of paper doesn't. Mm hmm. Which is something we kind of take for granted. But it's actually pretty important. And so what's happened in the last several years is all this speculation, price speculation, has trained people to value this thing. And that was critical. Because once they value it, only then can you build an economy around it.

Unknown Speaker  58:03  
Okay, next question. What's a problem? You're concerned about that most people aren't, or a problem that you think people pay too much attention to?

Unknown Speaker  58:11  
I think people pay too much attention to the daily dumb stuff happening on Twitter. I think that's a huge.

Unknown Speaker  58:17  
Yeah,

Unknown Speaker  58:18  
huge issue. And related to that problem, and thinking about the people don't pay much attention to is, I think that Twitter is actually the government of Western civilization right now. And the sense of, you know, people talk about digital democracy, but we've got a version of it. It's sort of like digital mob rule, you know, where if it's popular enough, it happens. And Twitter is considered a straw poll for if not the population, certainly a segment of elite opinion that is capable of shaping things, right. So you're having an election happen every day, every minute, every hour on Twitter. And the issue, though, is, it optimizes for what is popular, and it gives you zero feedback on what is true. And so one of the things I think a great deal about is replication over repetition,

Unknown Speaker  59:04  
unpacking that idea. I'd love to hear more about that.

Unknown Speaker  59:06  
Yeah. So when somebody shares a news article with me that I think is important, I asked, Did you independently replicate the facts? Most people do not. And it stops him short. Because it's the same thing that happened in science for many years. His whole concept of the reproducibility crisis, the reproducibility crisis is like, okay, there's a few articles in psychology that were published. And actually, many of them don't hold up when you actually try to reproduce them, but lots of people have cited them. So Bitcoin has this concept of number of independent confirmations. So you need different miners to confirm that this particular transaction happened before you actually treat it as truth and then incorporate it and bass further decisions and capital allocation decisions on that basis. So rather than 1000 arties, you could imagine interface that said, Here are five independent replications of this fact And ideally, those Five folks who you know, don't often agree with each other on other things.

Unknown Speaker  1:00:04  
Yep. So there's some tension built into that which is healthy.

Unknown Speaker  1:00:07  
Exactly. Or at least they are people sort of already do this, where they kind of trust a tribal elder. And if that tribal elder agrees with something, then you know, they're like, okay, I believe it right, you know, whereas they don't believe if it comes from the other side. But we haven't formalized this yet. Yeah, it's

Unknown Speaker  1:00:24  
sort of offline. And it's not like in any sort of like a ledger, just something that's in the social ether that people kind of pick up on, when they're trying to grok you know, what reality is what the truth is?

Unknown Speaker  1:00:34  
Yeah. Okay, last

Unknown Speaker  1:00:35  
question, what's the best piece of advice you've ever received?

Unknown Speaker  1:00:39  
manage yourself before managing others.

Unknown Speaker  1:00:41  
I love that idea on first hearing it, but practically in your life, what does that sort of meant?

Unknown Speaker  1:00:46  
It sort of means that you need to achieve a state, this isn't always necessarily a permanent state, sort of like working out or whatever. But you need to be able to set and hit your own targets, before going and telling other people what to do.

Unknown Speaker  1:01:01  
Definitely it sort of like clean your room before going and trying to change the world or whatever the Jordan Peterson references.

Unknown Speaker  1:01:07  
It's similar. That's right. But this is a little bit more of an interpersonal thing, where if you are not managing yourself and your own time, well, then you're not by example, able to lead others. Now, again, it's actually a lot like working out where it's something that you have to kind of get your head into that zone, you know, if you're an active manager, I have this concept of the loop, right? Where you wake up, and you essentially write up your daily loop, it's like, I will work out and I will do this much time for emails and what have you. And then I've got this much flex time. And I need to talk to these five people on these five projects, you essentially have this loop that you run each day, for example, one of the things I would do when I had projects to drive usually can't really drive more than three projects at the same time, frankly, even more than one, it's hard. But I would take those three projects, take their names, call them a, b, and c, and put that on my phone background. Okay. And I clear everything else. And the reason is, every time I looked, basically the first thing I do when I got up is I would try to drive a forward, right? As I'm like walking to the gym or whatever, right? That would take four hours, right driving a Ford, then whatever time I had left, I would drive the Ford. And then that's another four hours of answering emails or pinging people or whatever. And then I tried to drive see Ford. And of course, the day is gonna come and capture you towards the end of the day, there's going to be interruptions. But if the first thing you do each day is just drive a forward, you sometimes have something happen. I like the

Unknown Speaker  1:02:30  
idea that there's a level of self accountability that I think allows you to hold others accountable, especially if you're in any kind of a leadership position. So you hold yourself accountable first. And that actually gives you the moral authority to even bother holding anybody else accountable. Yep. Well, Balaji This has been an awesome conversation. Thanks for carving out time again, to chat. if folks want to connect, obviously, they can, they should follow you on Twitter at Balaji s, what's another great way to get in touch other than Twitter, if there's one,

Unknown Speaker  1:02:59  
oh, just go to Balaji s calm. And there's a subscribe button in the upper right, I'm starting to finally move off of Twitter to self hosted newsletters. It's a free newsletter. But basically any payments that go into it will use to fund daily prizes.

Unknown Speaker  1:03:13  
Love it. I'm going to sign off right now. And I'm going to go subscribe, encourage everybody to do the same. But thanks so much for taking the time. Balaji.

Unknown Speaker  1:03:19  
All right, cool. Thank you very much.

Unknown Speaker  1:03:21  
We appreciate you taking the time to join us for this episode of The paradox podcast, ramming for commute length conversations with original thinkers that will push your perspective and pull you into the marketplace of

Unknown Speaker  1:03:32  
ideas. If you're new to the podcast, we encourage you to check out our previous episodes in Episode 12. I chatted with Mike Solana Founders Fund, but having the courage to speak your mind, self censorship, escaping meta competition, and the power of the stories we tell ourselves have to dramatically alter the future, I think it's really important to just speak, honestly, when you believe in something or you have a feeling about something and opinion about something and it feels sort of uncomfortable to share it. That to me says that there's something bigger than you happening, that is a problem. If it's within reason, if it's to your best reasoning, like a perfectly reasonable thing to say or you think that you have an insight that is valid, then yeah, I just think you have to share it. I think that this culture of not speaking is sick, and that we need to heal it is

Unknown Speaker  1:04:20  
super unhealthy. And On a related note, you seem to have a really strong, I would say bullshit detector for when the dominant narrative is wrong. And obviously, sometimes you're gonna have false positives, false negatives, whatever. And I know you also care a lot about the stories that we tell ourselves culturally, I think I heard you say you care more about the stories we say to ourselves on an individual level or cultural level around technology, then the actual technology of the actual building that we're Yeah, it's almost like a leading indicator. Do you talk

Unknown Speaker  1:04:48  
a little bit about it is where did that originate from? I've always believed in the power of stories to affect change. I mean, I in college, I studied this specifically storytelling the way we convey information differently in different mediums and How these stories shaped people. There's like a religious cut to it. I think it's like all the secret stuff that Oprah's obsessed with. I'm kind of into like the power of positive thinking and this and that, because I've seen it in my own life and the life of honestly my mom, my mom came from a pretty crazy background. And from the time that I was a little kid, she always told me the story of her upbringing and everything that she had gone through, she came from a pretty dark place and rose up and accomplished a lot in her life. And I always knew that it was the story that she was telling herself, she told a story about all these things that happened in her life, in which she was the hero of this crazy drama. And it started, you know, at the bottom, and it would end with her on top. And she was always so proud of her story. And she loves to tell anyone about where she came from. One I believe that I internalize the lessons of that story, perseverance, you know, the American dream. If you don't like your life, you can change it. It's your responsibility to change it all those kinds of things. But then I was really obsessed with the way that story itself was almost like a spell that was affecting everything around her and us in our family was really, really powerful.

Unknown Speaker  1:06:10  
That's a wrap for this episode of The paradox podcast. If you'd like to connect, you can follow me on twitter at Kyle Tibbets. If you enjoyed the episode, please rate and review us on iTunes to spread the word and until next time,

Unknown Speaker  1:06:21  
take care of yourself.

Transcribed by https://otter.ai
