Unknown Speaker  0:12  
Okay, yeah. So I want to talk to you guys about today is actually something that's been on my mind for some time, in terms of actually a metric for quantifying decentralization, because we have, you know, in this industry people talk about the concept a lot. But in order to optimize it, you need to be able to measure it. So that's mean background me, maybe you know, me, so I'm interested as partner, co founded a company in in Council. And currently I'm running 21. And this talk today is not about 21. But go and sign up 21 if you want to hear more about that. And so it's very easy, very, you know, just four characters tournament CO, or five include period. Alright, so, okay, so overview. Alright, so everybody agrees that decentralization is important. And the issue though, is it hasn't yet been quantified. And we present basically a simple metric here in this talk along with a bunch of graphs and calculate it for both Bitcoin and aetherium. And it can be applied to basically any token and you guys can do 20 derivatives of it and it can be used as input for an optimization function, which is interesting, as well as for dashboards. So, just as motivation, right, everybody agrees that decentralization is important. Satoshi, you know, in his, you know, very first post, like the first sentence, he said, to talk about why Bitcoin was awesome is it's completely decentralized. You know, Sabo, who you know, was just on stage, basically, you know, said it's what, you know, allows Bitcoin to substitute for an army of accountants and so on. vitalik has obviously talked about it, Adam Ludwin, at a recent tweet storm talking about censorship, resistance and decentralization very, very related things, um, survey kind of agrees that this is a critical property, especially of public blockchains. And, you know, the question is, can we actually quantified decentralization. And the reason that that would be a very useful thing to be able to do rather than just talk about a this is decentralized, this is not decentralized in a very verbal and imprecise way, is that the foundation of all mathematical optimization theory is this concept of an objective function, where you can actually calculate it. And once you can calculate it, you can calculate on many different possible iterations and permutations of a system based on different parameters. So there's this huge body of theory that we can apply, if we can actually quantify decentralization. And as motivation, I'm going to, you know, introduce a few concepts and build up to this proposed measure. So many people here probably heard of this concept of the Gini coefficient, and maybe the Lorenz curve as well. So, you know, even though like inequality and decentralization are normally the concerns of different political factions, there's actually a lot that's similar between them.

Unknown Speaker  2:52  
Because inequality of income and centralization of power can sort of be measured with similar metrics. And these metrics, you know, the Lorenz curve, the Gini coefficient, they're used by economists to to measure inequality. So let's just review those really quickly. Right. So the idea here is that, you know, the Lorenz curve is this line over there. And in the case of perfect quality, and perfect decentralization, everybody has an equal share. And so as you build up the population from zero to 100% of the population, you get exactly the distribution of wealth or power, or what have you, it's just a, just a straight line like this. If you've got significant inequality, then what happens is, you know, the first 80%, or 60%, don't have very much, and then the next 80% 20%, have some, and then the top 20% have a lot of the power or the money or what have you, right. And so you can go from like a Gini Coefficient of zero with perfect equality, to a Gini Coefficient of one with perfect inequality, right. And we can kind of map this concept to perfect decentralization and centralization. And what's interesting about this is, if we break up a decentralized system into pieces, we can start computing Gini coefficients on each of those pieces. So what do I mean by that? So take a decentralized system, break it up into subsystems? So for example, if you take Bitcoin or aetherium, you take this concept of public blockchain, you can say, Okay, how centralized is mining in the sense of how split up are the rewards between people? Or in terms of different clients? How many different independent code bases are there? In terms of developers within a particular you know, code base, you know, how many different commits is one developers a 10? is a 30, etc. In terms of exchanges, how centralized are changes? Is there a mount Gox scenario where there's like one exchange with most the volume or is it spread over a bunch of different exchanges? In terms of nodes? Are they all concentrated in one country? And you know, could there be some, you know, Sybil attack with a firewall or is it something where it's spread out worldwide? Or ownership? There's another thing that people have talked about like you know, by addresses, you know, how spread out is the ownership of Bitcoin of a theorem and so on. So these are all things which at different points have been mooted as things which are important for centralization or decentralization. You can add your own subsystems or here and I want to note that the definition of pose is subsystem dependent. So, you know, selection of which subsystems you think are important, then leads to these measures. Okay, so if we if we take these six subsystems, so what we can actually do is, we can go ahead and compute Lorenz curves and Gini coefficients for these different kinds of subsystems. So here, for example, this is for Bitcoin, the mining decentralization by the block reward. So basically, it's actually fairly decentralized incentive, over the last 25 years, a fair number of different miners have, you know, earned, you know, block rewards, and the portion is actually relatively spread out. For Bitcoin clients. Bitcoin Core is, you know, the majority of clients, then you've got Bitcoin Unlimited, and then it's like relatively little after that. So it's fairly centralized over here. We're talking about developers of Bitcoin Core, that's significally more decentralized than this, but you know, the first developer has this chunk of commits, and the next developer is this chunk, and so on and so forth. Right? We can go and look at three other measures. So if we look at exchanges, right, so by 24 hour volume, there's, you know, a reasonably long tail of exchanges, it's like, it's got some degree of centralization. And over here, nodes by country, we look and we see, okay, the United States has the most nodes, and then you kind of go down the list like this. And then owners, this is actually surprisingly decentralized, in the sense that there's a fairly long tail of owners, even though the Gini coefficient is like, 2.7. Okay. And we can apply really the exact same calculations to aetherium subsystems. So we can go through aetherium mining and say, you know, how are those block rewards breaking down, and the Ethereum client, and what's interesting is for aetherium, the clients are actually almost decentralized, in the sense of, you know, most people are running Yes. And then there's a chunk running parity, and then there's relatively small, you know, number for the rest of the ecosystem. You know, by commits, you know, there's like one dev who's done a lot of commits on get. And then you can do exactly the same thing with exchanges and the nodes and with owners, right. And so what's cool about this is, once you've gone and calculated, you know, Lorenz curves and Gini coefficients for these, these subsystems, you can actually take a maximum over them and say that a system is only as decentralized as its, you know, least decentralized subsystem, right? And what I mean by that is, you take, you know, this, these six subsystems that we looked at, and for Bitcoin, you calculate Gini coefficient here and a theorem, the Gini coefficient here, you take the maximum over this, and you see, okay, the most centralized piece of the Bitcoin ecosystem is the fact that most folks are running one client. And actually, the same is true for a theorem most folks are running get a close runner up is for the reference client, there's like a very, you know, like one developer who's done most of the commits there. And, you know, we've got the links and sources and posters on the blog post, so you can replicate the analysis.

Unknown Speaker  7:48  
But the interesting thing about this is this starts to give us a dashboard, right? We can compute these things, they are literally functions, and we can compute them in real time. And this starts to give us some insight. Now, one can argue, of course, over whether a particular row contributes, you know, to decentralization or not. And so the argument now is, you know, which of these would you consider essential subsystems? Some would argue there should only be one reference client, I take no, you know, side in that, I'm just saying that, depending on which subsystems you select, you can calculate the Gini coefficient, you can take the maximum over here, and that gives you a measure, right? So this is pretty good. This starts to get directionally in the sense of what people say, right? Like, that's to say, if there's only one person who held all the Bitcoin, or if there was only, you know, one exchange that had all the volume, people would call it a centralized system. So basically, the most centralized subsystem determines the level of centralization of the system. So that since this starts to track with kind of our intuitive and verbal notions that, you know, all of you have probably heard hundreds or thousands of times, but we might be able to improve this still, because, you know, there's many more folks who own digital currency than who you know that the number of clients is, you know, like less than a dozen of these, but there's thousands and thousands of these, the Gini coefficient collapses, those distinctions, can we do even better. And so we introduce something that's very closely related, which we just call the Nakamoto coefficient. And if we go back to the Lorenz curve, that you're here is, let's say we now fixate on the 51% mark, and we just say, you know, how many folks do you need to compromise to get to 51% in a highly decentralized environment, you have to basically, you know, get get all of these guys in a highly centralized environment, you only need to get these guys in order to control 51%. Now, the 51% threshold was arbitrary, you can define a modified Nakamoto coefficient where the threshold is 75%. And you might do that on a subsystem by subsystem basis. That's to say mining, you might want, say, 51% for mining, but say 75% of, you know, of owners need to be captured in order to compromise it. So I just say, you know, 51%, because that's the traditional, you know, Bitcoin mining threshold for centralization. So this is good because the Nakamoto coefficient basically gives us an integer, which is the number of individuals that you need to compromise in order to get to 51% of a subsystem. So we can go back and we can calculate that again, from Those six subsystems. So here in red, you know, for example, for Bitcoin mining nakoma coefficient is up over here. For a client, basically, if you could control the Bitcoin Core client, then that one client gives you, you know, way more than 51% of all users, right, which is what the whole civil war is being photo right now. For Bitcoin developers, you know, if you have basically five developers, that's more than 51% of the commits to the Bitcoin Core code base, you can apply a very similar analysis to exchanges and nodes and owners. And interestingly, you need 171 owners in order to get to 51% of Bitcoin, right? Of all own Bitcoin. So in that sense, you know, this is a large number of people, they're distributed around the world, practically speaking, ownership is pretty decentralized from the sense of, hey, go and capture all those folks, bring them into a room and have them do something. Now, you know, as I mentioned, for different subsystems, the, the threshold may be higher or lower for mining, it's much worse, to get 51% of people for just capturing 51% of the volume, it would be bad, what you could do is you could then, you know, force all those people to sell a little Bitcoin and crash the price. So it wouldn't be good, but it may not be as catastrophic as capturing 51% of mining, that's a case by case decision, we can do exactly the same thing for a theorem and we can say, okay, you know, how many folks do we need to get in a room, before we have 51% of the block reward captured? Again, one client gift will get us 51% of all of the, you know, clients out there, one codebase, rather. And, you know, there's basically like, you know, two developers that will get us to more than 51% of def commits, and so on and so forth, we can, we can apply these these kinds of calculations. And it's basically about, you know, in terms of holders is about 63 aetherium, holders, who you need to collect to get to 51% of aetherium. Okay, in terms of balance, so what's, what's interesting about this is we can now go back and look at those tables again. And we can say, hey, let's calculate the Nakamoto coefficient, this time rather than the maximum Gini coefficient. So here, we calculate the maximum here we're calculating the minimum. And so the minimum Nakamoto coefficient is one. And it reduces to basically this row, where it is the fact that there's only Bitcoin Core, and there's only GEF that most folks are running, that is the level of centralization, at least according to this metric. If you exclude that row, then you'll get you know, a different kind of source of centralization. In this case, the fact there's only two developers to get that they're more than 50% of commits, starts to be your your source of centralization. So the interesting thing about something like this is you can literally put this in a dashboard, you can monitor this in real time. And depending on what your concerns are, you can add or subtract different rows. And now you can actually start allocating resources towards improving decentralization, according to this very easy to understand and quantify metric. Now, there's many other kinds of metrics that can be applied. But my thesis would be that most of them are going to be sort of, you know, rank correlated with these metrics, that is to say, unless they capture that critical property that if one subsystem is compromised, the whole thing is compromised, that they're not going to really map to the intuitive notion of centralization and decentralization. So um, so this is the concept, basically just, you know, take a blockchain, break it up into subsystems, and calculate Gini Nakamoto coefficients, and then calculate the maximum of these minimum values. And that's a way that you can actually quantify decentralization and thus optimize it. So that's a summary. We propose a simple means of measuring decentralization. It tracks with our intuitive notions given a list of subsystems. It can be used in dashboards, and it can be used in objective functions. So that's it. Thanks, guys, and go and sign up for 21

Transcribed by https://otter.ai
