Erik Torenberg  0:00  
Hey everybody, it's Eric Tarver, co founder,

partner,

village global eight network driven, venture firm. And this is Metro stories, a podcast covering topics related to tech business with world leading experts.

Everybody, we're now accepting applications for a network catalyst accelerator program founders in our program have gone on to raise money from Lux, spark a16z, slow first, round Susa homebrew, Matt, Ron, obvious effects, signal fire, and many more, learn more and apply at village global.vc. Slash network catalyst. So Balaji, thank you for for joining. I want to talk about three things with you. Career transitions, picking startup ideas, and co founders, why don't you start by sharing your thoughts on career transitions? One is when to when's the right time to leave a company and then two, how do we think about whether to start or to join a company? Any any framework for that?

Balaji Srinivasan  1:07  
Okay, well, so first, for anybody who's working at Coinbase, you should never leave until Brian's thumbs up. Okay. But so, you know, like, it's good to stick it through and so on and so forth. I'd say things that I've found in terms of timing that, um, so you sort of have to trade off a, you know, kind of exploitation versus exploration, right in the sense of a key armed bandit, if you guys know what that is the care Amanda concept from math, imagine you, you went to Las Vegas, you had a roll of slot machines, okay? You didn't know their payoffs, each of them, we do is you walk up to the first one, and you start yanking the thing, and maybe it pays off 50% of time, it gives you $1 50% time you lose money, but maybe that one next to it, one and 1000 times it gives you a million dollars, but the rest of time you lose money, the second one actually has a better payoff, but it might take longer to figure it out, versus the first one, okay. And this is the concept of balancing your scarce resource, which is how many years of career you have, or months, versus your maximum pay often in some sense, right? Um, and it doesn't have to be money, importantly, it can be learning it, and so on and so forth. So, one thing you don't want to do is you don't want to switch so frequently, that you don't like that you're quitting, right, you just want to accomplish something, my general kind of way of thinking about it is, I stopped when I stopped learning. Um, and you know, what I've done in the past. So I've been, I've been both grad student, and you know, undergrad, and grad student and lecturer, and online lecture have been engineer and CTO, I've been hired and hiring manager, I've been an entrepreneur and founder and an angel investor and venture capitalist, I've been security tester, and I've been on the other side, you know, like, basically sitting at the NSA, like surveillance to catch people. And so I think that's the second aspect, the first thing is optimized for learning. The second thing is optimized for being on both sides of the table. And then you gain empathy for the other person, and you understand what their incentive structure is, and why they're not actually being, you know, a bad person, if they're if they're just lying with you the ship different incentive structure. And the third, I would say is, you know, to do something that and this kind of relates to your third question, Eric, do you guys anybody know the Japanese concept of ikigai, basically, it's like the intersection of four things, I think it's what you're good at, what can make you money, what the world needs and what you're passionate about. Right? So your skills, so you know what you love, right? So that that you know, what you're what you're personally interested in, what you're skilled at, what you can monetize, and then what the world needs, right? So so that's a useful framework where you know, it's funny, sometimes you can actually spreadsheet this out, you can list all the things you've ever thought about doing and you score them on those four axes. And for example, if there's two things that you're neutral on, but one of them pays much more than the other, you might select that one, right? Or if there's two things you're neutral on, but one of them is something the world really needs another one isn't, then you might choose that one. So this is kind of, you know, how I also think about switching is to make sure I'm constantly optimizing, you know, for learning and for a guy. Okay, maybe long answer, but go ahead.

Erik Torenberg  4:15  
So, for people who are like soups, I just picked on soups, for example, he left Coinbase then joined another company that then started his own company, which we're happy to be investors in. But I, how do you advise people who are leaving Coinbase? Let's say that their time is up and to think about whether they should start or join something? What are the frameworks they should be thinking about? Or how do they know?

Balaji Srinivasan  4:34  
Well, I mean, it's about your specific personality. I mean, personally, I found that, um, you know, the only kinds of things I can do, like, like, founding a company is so hard that you really, you know, there's folks who now kind of do it in almost like a pre professional way, like, Okay, let me get my MBA by founding something. In VC, you know, you'll often hear associate say, Oh, I want to be an operator, and like, operate what you know, like, I'm sure Alon didn't think of himself as Oh, I'm going to go and be an operator. Next. It's like, he wanted to build something he couldn't buy, which was a trip to Mars. Right. And I think the level of difficulty psychological difficulty, you know, and and, frankly, economic irrationality in the middle of doing a startup is something that you really can only do if it offers you non economic ideological rewards, at least at least for someone like me. And that's because in the middle of doing a startup, there are a bunch of, you know, what Andreessen Horowitz calls with IO moments, okay, with IO means we're fucked, it's over. Okay. And there's many of those moments, especially in the early stages of a startup. And I've actually figured out why there's actually a mathematical reason as to why that is the case. small sample sizes cause stress, okay, so in your life, you can think of all of these different interfaces around you, for example, you have one manager, or you have three investors, or you have five customers, right? Or you have only two people covering you in the press or whatever, right? Like, anytime you have small sample sizes, then if one of those people goes south, then you've got a problem. Okay, now on so for many people who are employees, if your manager goes out on you, you have a problem, right? For a founder, it's different if their investors or their customers or their employees, if enough people go south on you, you have a problem, but at least you've now diversified it so that there's, you know, maybe three points of failure, or 10, as opposed to one. This is also why as a company skills, certain kinds of things that used to be super stressful early on aren't as stressful. Like, if a customer cancels an account in a rage on Twitter, and you only have 10 accounts. That's like a big deal, that's 10% of your revenue, or you're going to lose more customers, etc. If you got 10 million accounts, like Zuck, you know, like, there's, I probably see someone scream at him every single day or whatever, delete Facebook, a few, whatever. And frankly, it's like rounding error, you have to actually look at the stats to see if it's if it's real. So scale can actually distress things, but not everything. Because, you know, like, you're not going to be able to scale. You know, there's always some interfaces in your life, where you can't scale them indefinitely, like, you know, you're, if you're an employee, you're usually only gonna have one manager, for example, right? So my point being that when you when you start a company, you have all these small sample size interfaces, and the stress level is quite high, and many of them will go south on you. And the rational thing is to quit that same expectation of what your success will be after that point is is low. And really honestly, the reason to persist at that point is a sense of, you know, dogged perseverance, ideological zeal, you know, like, desire to never be, you know, never take a loss, right. And just like doggedness, and she needed a really weird mix of hyper economic rationality, like to be able to look at the numbers and calculate them out. And economic irrationality and ideological zeal. And I can say that, but to make those choices in the moment is challenging. For example, early Coinbase had a moment where, you know, they woke up and some guy was like hacking their account. And had they finished the hack, they would have taken all the money, and I would have bankrupted really quickly, so no one here would be around, okay. Um, there's a concept in this, by the way that comes from evolutionary genetics, population genetics, it's called the fixation probability. Basically, there's, there's some mutations, which are selectively advantages, for example, they, you know, maybe they increase your immunity to infectious diseases or something like that. Basically, if you have a good idea for a startup, okay, it might have some advantage over other startups, but you might just die from random chance before you can show your stuff. Okay, that's, that's the concept of genetic drift versus natural selection. If you guys see the the black curves there, right, those are when a mutation arises. And other has like, you know, mutation that gives him higher strength or something like that, and you pass it down to like, two children, and then four, but then they all die out, they're hit by, you know, lightning, or something like that. And then the mutation goes to zero, that arises again, and it goes to zero. Once in a while though, it gets to a critical mass, and then goes all the way to the entire population all and people have it. Okay. And so lots of good ideas for startups, especially now in Corona times, are just getting killed, wiped out by random chance. Okay. And you have to ask yourself, when you're founding the company, am I going to zero because this random chance? Or am I going to zero because I just like, you know, like, I just need to will to power it and boost the selection probability and go up, right? This, by the way, is also my mental framework for thinking about luck versus skill, right? luck is the random bad fortune that drives you to zero. and skill is the will to power that takes you to infinity. And and really both of them are drivers, right? You really can have bad luck. But another way to think about it is you know, luck is having the coin come up heads and hard work is flipping the coin 100 times. So, um, you know, in terms of thinking about founding something, if you're so insane that you'll flip it 100 times, then then you might be able to get somewhere but you shouldn't be So in saying that you flip it 10,000 times because you're sticking with the wrong thing.

Erik Torenberg  10:03  
Yeah. Let's double down on ideas for a second. So two questions, basically on, you know, if you worked at open door or Coinbase, you have some expertise and access in real estate or crypto or FinTech, you Those are broad spaces individually. How do you recommend people sort of pick the topic between them or begin to navigate them? And separately? Secondly, what's your sort of COVID requests for startups list or COVID? anti requests for startups? You hinted a little bit at some of the some business or not, or, you know, relevant.

Balaji Srinivasan  10:32  
Yeah, that's right. So, um, it was second was code requests sharp. The first was like, how do I generate yours? Like, how do I think about that?

Erik Torenberg  10:39  
And think between them validate them? Yep.

Balaji Srinivasan  10:41  
Yeah, yeah. So So I have this some posts that you know, people have liked, are called the Jeremy's or rather, it's a, an idea is not a mock up a mock up is not a prototype. A prototype is not a program, a program is not a product and a product is not businesses, businesses, nonprofits right. Now, you know, one thing you'll often hear is, you know, some friends who's non tech will be like, Oh, I had an idea for for Facebook, 10 years ago, I could have made a billion dollars, whatever your people will say, this kind of dumb stuff. And the way to like, kind of just shut them down. Because really, what they're basically saying is, I had an idea to dunk, I could be wrong, right. And it's just not the same thing. The napkin drawing of the billion dollar concept, idea is actually important, I'll come back to when it's important. But the napkin drawing a billion dollar concept, by the way, sometimes it is, even though I'm kind of saying it in a facetious fashion, Uber was a billion dollar concept. So the napkin drawing was valuable time, one minute, right, to make wireframe with all user screens, that's actually some effort that's like a day, okay, then to actually get an ugly hack, you reached out here, no code or whatever, that's a weekend, then clean code that's like, like, at least a couple of weeks to a month, then you know, you start doing design and copywriting and pricing and the physical components can take you a few months. I mean, obviously, you can watch it faster than that, but it's going to take physical take a while, they're doing incorporation, and filings and payroll, a lot of this stuff is sped up since the time that I posted this, which is seven years ago, but but the concept is still there, right? Essentially, like each step, there is a significant increase in the amount of time and energy to take this kernel of a concept and turn it into a business, okay. And so, you know, what you should expect to do is generate tons of ideas that you leave at the base of the mountain, okay, you need to be super, super generative, because most of them, you're not going to want to spend five years of your life on. Okay, so that's kind of first concept ideas is there's a huge difference in idea and the execution. And this way of quantifying that. Now, with that said, If you scroll down a little bit, like there's kind of thesis antithesis synthesis on this. So the thesis is kind of the, like, the East Coast conventional wisdom, oh, you know, like, the way you know, I don't think it gets me glasses, by the way, but basically, oh, you know, you invented Facebook invented Facebook, right, like, or the IP matters, idea matters. This is like the kind of people who think, oh, the researcher who came up with a drug is the same as a pharma company that actually got through regulatory and shipped and scaled and, and replicated that academic research, much of which actually doesn't replicate, there's a huge, huge gap between those things. The the delusion Here comes from the fact that people think of writing something down as the same as doing it. Now, the other side of it is, you know, kind of a Silicon Valley month, or it's not that you're it's execution. And that's like Bob Metcalf thing over here. But I will come back to like a 7030, which is the following. There's some ideas that are like, um, compare, I have an idea for a social network for pet owners to develop a low cost way to launch objects in space. Okay. The former is, is a completely undefensible thing where everything is in the execution of it, can you actually grind through acquire customers and so on so forth? bladder, me, me some fundamental physical insight, right? Like through deep study through equations, and so on, you actually have something real, okay. So machine learning starts maybe like that, for example. So you shouldn't like underrate the idea to such a level that you think it's all execution because execution has not just a magnitude of how hard you work, but a direction of where you're pointing it. And so that's like my thesis sentence distance idea is the direction execution is kind of the magnitude along the direction, of course, you know, the faster you move, the faster you can change directions, and so on, so forth. Okay. That's the second second. Which is basically that you want to kind of generate a bunch and movements. The third thing with SPECT ideas is just that. You don't actually need to be super creative. The best thing to ask when you're generating and yours is, How are you different from the general population? Okay, for example, you guys are all employees of thousand person companies, most of it most of you are at least Coinbase. Right? So you are seeing obvious workflow challenges within 1000 person tech company that the vast majority of people on the face of the planet are not seeing. And so anything that you run into, which is a problem specific to your job, or to your personal experience that you think of is rare, you should write that down. Now, on the flip side of this is like, you know, as for college students, that's a totally different kind of market. That's something where it's just true Lord of the Flies are extremely difficult, like Snapchat and Facebook are very, very challenging. Because there's 1000 different people who are trying to do that lots of college students free time, a way to make it more defensible is to take your personal experience and arbitrage a personal experience. Okay, go ahead, Eric.

Erik Torenberg  15:18  
If you wrote this today, besides the faster, you know, everything's quicker, would it be meaningfully different?

Balaji Srinivasan  15:25  
Not really, I think, um, I think some of the things have been sped up, because you know, you, you can incorporate online stripe is there, no code is there, I probably advise no code and and like online services much more, right? Because you can get pretty far with that. I might also say that, you know, and this is a third model, which is, you might start with the community. So there's idea there's execution, and there's community, right. So, you know, nowadays on, so I've got a following on my, on my Twitter and my MOOC or what have you. And some of the interaction of them is sort of like, you know, person community fit, right. And then that community can bootstrap a protocol, it can bootstrap a product, and so on, and so forth. And that's something I was just less thinking about back in 2013, than I have today. But that might be a third angle on things, you know, to go take a community first approach.

Erik Torenberg  16:17  
And how about the COVID request for startups

or anti request for startups?

Balaji Srinivasan  16:21  
I'm gonna show you this, and then I'll show you talking about my concepts. So first, what is this graph? This is the talent graph of 1001 days in the life of Thanksgiving, Turkey, life improves, improves, and then a ridiculous sudden reversal, okay. And we're seeing Thanksgiving Day charts across the economy. And we're the turkey. Uber is orange. Okay. And look at that ridiculous Thanksgiving Day drop. And Uber Eats By the way, has risen dramatically. Right? So Uber is now essentially just UberEATS. Their second business has become their first that's literally their business. Okay? Now, the thing about this is, that's a reversal. No business can plan for, you know, like, fortunately for Uber, at least to the corporation, they can just disengage drivers when demand plummets like this. But, but that's like, you know, ridiculous drop, right, like a 70% drop in revenue. However, here's the thing. Notice how Uber drop but not UberEATS. One of the things I was short on was Uber, but not UberEATS is pretty good. It's pretty specific as a prediction, right? In terms of what to be long and short on. And frankly, uh, you know, I never talk about trades online, because that's investing advice or whatever. But let's just say that if you had reallocated your portfolio and listen to me around the time, you would have done pretty well, right. So like, you know, for example, x rays, drones, antivirals, CT scans, autonomy, diagnostics, facemasks, remote work telepresence by informatics, I think that holds up VR is only one of those were in drones, me I put an asterisk on simply because there's such supply chain disruption that demand me there, but not me, not the supply, we'll have to see if you can make VR headsets in the US. But everything else is clearly going especially like, you know, like remote work stuff, zoom and stuff, obviously. And then on the short side of things, I think that holds up pretty well as well. Travel Tinder, Grindr, hotels, Airbnb airlines in person, you know, blue cities come back to that point, but real estate is crashing commercial real estate and blue cities, restaurants, conferences, digital nomads in the sense of moving around the world, you can't do that anymore. Remember, binondo breeds? So I think that holds up pretty darn well. Right? Um, and, you know, I think that's like, let's call it part of the kawit investing thesis. So if you guys may remember this concept of like the digital divide, right? This is a thing in the late 90s. Oh, you know, some people have access to the internet, others don't. Right. So April 7, I have this concept, which I think is one mental model, the physical device, right? digital is now cheap, with billions of smartphones around the world, it's a physical, that's expensive. Okay, so for the last 70 years, we've made the cost of putting a bunch of transistors on a chip, that you know, that's now cheap. But putting a bunch of people in a room is now expensive, okay, so the measure of a competent society is one that can actually hold a rally, if you can do that you are calm, you're confident enough in the people that are confident in the state, and the diagnostics and so on, that, you know, you can have this huge crowd that has been tested to them into their life, and they all come and congregate there. Right? For an incompetent state. And for a citizenry that is not cooperative. The Commons are attractive, and you can't like basically, there's a failed state in between your house in the next person's house, you have to wear a mask. You You know, you basically have, you know, like, like a place where you can't share your face. You know, maybe it's pollution, maybe it's infection. It's not the commons aren't actually traversable. So I think this is a powerful mental model for the next several years, at least, that physical is expensive. And one thing that means by the way, is digital is not cheap. Physical is now expensive. So everybody is going to want a softer substitute for things because you know, send another tweet by the way that I was really surprised people wilded out about.

Erik Torenberg  20:03  
I have one more question for you, which is co founders? Are we sort of in the picking co founder era similar to sort of dating before Tinder? And that you're limited to the people that you've, you know, went to college with or worked with? Or is that for co founder? Is that actually good? She's should you stick to that pool? How do you think? What's your framework for picking the right co founder?

Balaji Srinivasan  20:21  
Yeah, you know, so so like, the way I kind of think about this is I'm having I'm speaking as like an investor and having seen like, lots of these things and whatnot. So you should pick somebody who who is complimentary to you. Okay. And, um, there should always be like a clear CEO. That's like, the most important component. The The thing about that is, like the question of who's the CEO, that's like one of the very first conversations you need to have. And ideally, it's something where that's obvious between between you, but if it's not a, you know, for example, at the beginning of Coinbase itself, this is public knowledge. But, you know, Brian and and the guy who helped co found blockchain info, they had a disagreement over this, and you know, what, they worked it out, right. And basically, blockchain info is a good company, and Coinbase is a good company. But that type of stuff should be resolved. There's also an ideological dispute, blockchain wanted to be able to have a wallet where they couldn't have the password and Coinbase wanted password reset. So it's like someone with a fork in the road is actually very substantial. It's two different visions of the future, both of which turned out to be legitimate visions of crypto, right. So true product difference on one simple thing, a password reset. So that's, that's like a good example of a few things. First, who's the leader? Second, what's the long term ideological vision? Third are skills complimentary, and so on and so forth? Um, I do know that these like, co founder dating sites or whatever, kids these days, you know, like, I don't know, I don't know if that works. It feels it could work, but it feels inorganic, maybe, um, you know, I think I think the best thing to do is to actually work on a project with that person, and find that there's a natural division of labor, nothing substitutes for that, because working with somebody is just very, very different from talking to them. It's like they have to catch the past when you throw it into it, what you meant, not necessarily what you said, lots and lots of little things like that. They have to tolerate you're using proceeds because nobody's ever strong in every dimension, you know, or some people are but few. And, and so I think actually doing and shipping a project, ideally one that involves money and customer support with them, like is, is probably the best bet. And that could be a hackathon or something like that. But try to push it all the way through such that both of you have legal liability together or you know, customers yelling at you. That's a real trial by fire.

Erik Torenberg  22:34  
apology. Thank you so much for coming on. Give a digital round of applause for for biology.

If you're an early stage entrepreneur, we'd love to hear from you. Check us out at village global.vc

Transcribed by https://otter.ai
