Unknown Speaker  0:02  
So, kind of a bold title here why we think Bitcoin may be the most important technology of this decade. So we're gonna be talking today mostly on behalf of interesting hearts. Let me give my very quick bio and then jump into it. So this is me. I am the CEO of 21 best funded company in Bitcoin I guess, partner nation Horowitz before this, I co founded Council and to mukade Stanford with 200,000 students. A little bit about 21. So basically, yesterday, there's a wall street journal article that came out should be in the print edition today. Essentially, we've developed an embeddable Bitcoin mining chip that can be put into any device. So from laptops, cell phones, printers, routers, etc, etc, or into existing chipset. So if you've got a video chip, for example, you know, hd 64, you can put one of our cores in there, and then the chip is plugged into the wallet repatriates money to you. So silicon as a service. So we think that's going to be interested in Qualcomm, Cisco, Khosla, etc, are all investors. But you know, let's leave that for another time. So let's just talk about this. Why do we believe at a16z that Bitcoin may be the most important technology the second? So if you sit back with me to 1994, you know, what is this internet thing? anyway? It's a great clip by Brian Gumbel, and company of the today show, basically, he's talking about how, what is this at symbol, and you can Google it, it's, you know, YouTube, bankable 1984 and you know, what is internet anyway? And that's really what we want to kind of talk about what is Bitcoin, right? And the concept here is we've got about five theses, you know, and kind of a fact to go to go through frequently asked questions and this Andreessen Horowitz thesis on Bitcoin, sort of, you know, five sub theses So number one, Bitcoin is a protocol. Number two, we believe Bitcoin is here to stay in 2013. That was a question mark, I don't believe it's a question mark anymore. Number three, by many measures, Bitcoin is bigger than Google. So some, there's hopefully, you know, some the audience are listening in. But Bitcoin mining is by many measures bigger than public estimates of Google's supercomputer. Number four, Bitcoin has a very powerful network effect with four different players in that network effect. Miners, developers, merchants and users. Number five, Bitcoin is open source who believes that a good analogy for Bitcoin is that Bitcoin is to paypal as Linux is to Windows. And in the same way that people will coordinate it around everybody who do not own an operating system coordinated around Linux. In the same way everybody who does not own a payments rail, we believe is going to coordinate around Bitcoin. And then I'll go through the fact and what we think of is the most important question on Bitcoin. So, first, let me kind of motivate Bitcoin, you know, Bitcoin is a protocol. What do we mean by that when we say payments are now packets? So you know, if you think about, oh, well, if you think about physical cash, right, when Person A hands Person B $1 bill, right, then Person A knows Person B no longer has $1 bill. But with digital cash, if Person A sends $1 bill to the Steelers, that dollar bill to Person B, then person, a may still have a copy of the serial numbers, right. As such, they have a temptation to potentially double spend. So the solution to this is something we call, you know, today, centralized digital cash, where you have an intermediate, a PayPal, for example, where the debit of a corresponds to a debit in a central ledger of a central actor, and then B gets a credit and that central actor records everything, right? But the answer is really decentralized digital cash, right. So that is say, you know, with Bitcoin, what you can do is you can replace that central actor, with a decentralized network of miners, right? And what this does, it means it solves things in a decentralized way. And, you know, that is pretty interesting, because, you know, the actual technology underneath it, you know, we can go through all the pieces. But basically, this is why we think of Bitcoin as a protocol, you can actually go through, you know, kind of packet traces, you can actually at the command line, you can send packets to the Bitcoin network, and you can receive acknowledgments that your payment has actually been included in a mind block. That's Wireshark tracer. So, you know, think about what's what's going on there at the command line, just like you can ping the remote machine. Without any communication with at&t, you can now send a payment of, you know, eventually arbitrary complexity without talking to any bank of any kind, right between any peer on the network, right. So this is very interesting and looks completely different from how we kind of think of payments in the current payment rails. It's worth actually going and learning how this rail works, but you can also just abstract it away and just think of it a new way to send money over the internet.

Unknown Speaker  4:44  
And so that's why we compare Bitcoin to the internet right before with at&t. For example, you'd have to do a deal with a telco before the internet to deploy code related to information on the network backbone. But after you know, the internet became mainstream, any node could communicate with any other node Without any process of any fixed cost going close a business development deal with a centralized intermediary. In the same way we think of Bitcoin as distributing banks, right? So before Bitcoin, you'd have to go into a deal effectively with a bank, either implicitly or explicitly, implicitly, if you go and work with PayPal, for example, because underlying that isn't bank underlying that is fedwire, and so on, or explicitly if one goes and actually communicates to the bank, whereas afterwards, with Bitcoin, you can go peer to peer and any node can talk to any other node. And so, you know, one way of thinking about this is that to the end user, Bitcoin is like email, that's to say, you have an email address, and you have a password. And anybody who has your public email address can send your email, but only you with your private password can send email out from that address. In the same way, anybody who has your public Bitcoin address continue Bitcoin, but only you with your password can actually send out from that address. And so importantly, just like email, there's no nobody who owns Bitcoin. There's no Bitcoin calm, the code is open source. I mean, there's a bitcoin.com, but it's not getting revenue from it. So second point, Bitcoin is here to stay. We think that institutional momentum, it's now beyond a tipping point. And so essentially, you know, large government actors, large financial actors. So Bernanke, Yellen, Larry Summers, have all made positive statements about Bitcoin. In fact, yesterday, Larry Summers just announced that he's joining the strategic Advisory Board of 21, and has said, you know, at first, we may be surprised by the presence of a technology like embedded mining, eventually, we may be surprised by its absence. So it's become, you know, fairly bullish on Bitcoin. You know, the way I put it is, you know, that was kind of how money was printed in the 20th century. And now, here's how it's print to the 21st. So, you know, it's finance, NASDAQ, you know, Wall Street Journal, Bloomberg, Wall Street, you know, many mainstream financial institutions have now embraced Bitcoin written reports, etc. Very, very, very different scenario than 2013 2014. We think, you know, 2014 in particular was a year of institutional acceptance, many governments who made positive statements in technology, you know, like, you know, GitHub repositories, wallets, Google integration, startups, market penetration, you know, it's still early, but hundreds, thousands of merchants that accept Bitcoin, PayPal stripe, Braintree, all the payment systems to pop media coverage, VC investing is on pace for a billion dollars plus this year. Just to dive into this a little bit. We have all three, you know, kind of past, present and alternate future. You know, Federal Reserve chairs have said positive things. We have, you know, multiple federal government agencies have said neutral to positive things in one of my favorite lines is, uh, you know, when when the US government sold 30,000 bitcoins recently, they wouldn't have sold 30 kilos of cocaine. Right? So it's a de facto legitimization of Bitcoin when they did that, right. You know, state governments as well, you know, you've got New York out in front with their bitlicense. But you've got a bunch of, you know, various state governments that have said positive things, and that are competing to legalize Bitcoin, you know, outside the US, it's even more positive in many countries. So, you know, Chancellor Osborne of the UK wants to make Britain Bitcoin country, Japan has said, it's not going to regulate Bitcoin, Bitcoin makes Aliyah in Israel. And in fact, if you take, yeah, well, at those great headlines, if you take the global perspective, right, it, you know, interestingly, only really China and Russia are the large countries that have sort of impeded Bitcoin. And even there, it's something where, you know, China's nominally communist, but everybody's a capitalist. So, you know, they're, they contain contradictions, right? Like, like, what? So Bitcoin is actually doing pretty well on an international scale. And just given where the network is, it's just very difficult to actually ban it. It's not a centralized actor, nobody can be fined and put in jail to stop a Bitcoin transaction from happening, you'd have to basically shut down every miner in the world. And at that point, at this point, that's close to shutting on internet because of how distributed it is.

Unknown Speaker  8:47  
In terms of institutional finance, so you know, more on this, just, you know, there's there's ETFs out there, there's a nicely just today launched a Bitcoin index. You know, here's an example of noisy us USA and b v investing in Coinbase. I mentioned Larry Summers working with us. And so essentially, we think it's not right now. But maybe in like, a year or two years, we're gonna see a number of companies talking about, you know, what's your Bitcoin strategy, just like, what's your social media strategy? And, you know, each kind of vertical has taken their own business and then intersected with Bitcoin. So if you're in payments, you're kind of implementing payments. If you're a merchant, you're accepting it. If you're a news media, you're writing about it. If you're in gaming, then you're accepting it for endgame points. So for example, Xbox and Zynga governments, we all are mentioned venture capital already mentioned ibanking already mentioned. And so basically, you know, what is your Bitcoin strategy is kind of what more and more groups are going to be thinking about, just like your investment strategy, if you don't information as a business, you needed something, you know, at least a website. If you deal with money as a business, which most businesses deal with, you may eventually need to learn something about Bitcoin. So third point, this is a provocative one, right? Bitcoin is bigger than Google. What do we mean by that? Right? Basically, all of Google, if you took all of Google's servers by our calculations represent less than 1% of mining capacity worldwide. Right? And that's insane. That's actually crazy. So let's actually talk about that. So basically Bitcoin mining over the last, you know, 18 to 24 months was basically 100 x year over year, and then S carved out as it hit Moore's law. And basically, this means all of these data centers around the world have been built. And part of the Bitcoin protocol is just standard for introduce enter and cross your arms like this. That's how block is mined, right? But this is this incredible distributed computing build out that's, you know, never of its kind, it's been observed before, where all these people are otherwise, you know, unknown to each other. Right? Maybe some of the guys know each other. But they're all working together on this thing called Bitcoin. You know, they're, it's competition similar to venture capital in some ways. And the interesting thing about this is, what they built is something which is bigger than Google, by this measure. So just as an example, you know, a few years ago, there's a guy who estimated around 1.52 point 4 million servers for Google, let's say they've got 10 million servers, right? We can actually go to kind of estimates of how much mining individual CPUs produce. And we can take like your top lines, aeons. And we can estimate, okay, what if you've got 10 million servers, and each server has a top line Zeon with one to 10 mega hashes per CPU, and you've got on the order of 10 CPUs per server, that works out to roughly one paid a hash of capacity, right. But the worldwide Bitcoin network is 350 paid hashes of capacity. So that would mean that if Google shut down search, male maps, etc, under the assumption that they have 10 million servers, maybe they've got 100 million, but even then it would still not be very much relative to Bitcoin. They shut down everything, and they pointed at mining, and they're less than 1% of the global mining network. So that's really interesting, right? It reminds me of social in like the early 2000s, this thing that was sort of dismissed as a joke actually turned out to be the biggest thing ever, right? And literally, every people, everybody in the world knows about it, and billions of people are on, you know, Facebook, at least on a yearly basis, on a monthly basis. And so in the same way, this Bitcoin thing kind of dismisses joke has suddenly become one of the world's largest supercomputers, that's actually pretty interesting. Now, here's another measure in which, you know, kind of Bitcoin is pretty large. Basically, in 2011, Google talked about how many megawatts of power its global computing infrastructure took, and under the assumption that there's roughly one megawatt per peda hash and a peda hash is basically a measure of compute in the Bitcoin network. We look at Bitcoin as consume more power than Google did as well. And this may become more of an issue over time.

Unknown Speaker  12:33  
So fourth point, Bitcoin is open source, right? So people often ask, you know, why couldn't you just do this with PayPal? Why couldn't everybody just did not PayPal, and that gets fundamentally to coordination and incentive problems, right? In the 90s, when people tried to do micro payments in the browser, the fundamental issue was, who is going to be the troll, right? Who is actually going to run the payments rail and collect the payments? The browser manufacturer wanted to do it, the operating system wanted to do it, the bank wanted to do it. And since everybody wanted to do it, no one could do it, right. Bitcoin is sort of a decentralized Commons, where nobody can hold it in quite the same way. So you think of it as a programmable and customizable OS for mine. And this slide, I think, is a useful one. When we say Bitcoin is to paypal is Linux is to Windows. In this, there's a lot of, you know, points you can unpack out of that, right. So first is, you know, the upper left, every entity can now get banking, right, in the same way, we went from a human associated landline to an internet, you know, machine associated IP address, we go from a human associated bank account, to a machine bitcoin wallet, right? That has important and subtle implications, every device that's connected to the internet can now send and receive money. This can be done in every country, any country that has power and internet, which is every country can now send or receive money on the same system, you can send every amount, right from the tiniest amount of money, basically, fractions of fractions of a cent, much smaller than you could think of with cash today, to the very, very largest amount, like the gdps of entire countries, you can essentially do it with Bitcoin. And this is very different from you know, the current way we think about money, we think about we've got cash, we've got credit cards, we've got wire transfers, you've got different modalities for different quantities and frequencies of transaction. And now we suddenly unify all that into a theoretical uniform hole called Bitcoin, right? And this is similar to how we went from having separate physical mail, you know, systems, the postal office and broadcast systems like NBC and you know, telephony systems like at&t into the single programmable communications medium called the internet. Right? And so when people ask, is Bitcoin a commodity? Is it a currency is it you know, an equities of this, it's all of those and more besides you get it's a programmable value transfer mechanism where you can subdivide it and make it look like a stock, you can make it look like a commodity, etc. Okay. So it's extensible. This is important because many people will quote modern, you know, or contemporary rather limitations of Bitcoin, for example, transaction times or transaction fees or things like that. But the internet wasn't built for video, right at the early days in internet, we were not able to use And over time it got upgraded. In the same way, there's a number of different modifications to the Bitcoin protocol, they're out there, they're being adopted, it's getting better. It's unfeasible. So you know, people often have a, you know, problem with PayPal, and that it can freeze your account, that cannot happen with it with a Bitcoin account. It's free and open source. And this is just the payment system, we haven't gotten to the contract language and multi signature and all this other type of stuff that's in there. Multi signature is basically a way to put a board of directors vote into a program. And so the potential of this is pretty substantial. To give some examples, I talked about how it's extensible. You know, there's all this forking and modification that's taking place, people are contributing to this Commons, they're, you know, it's this ferment of ideas. And, you know, we've seen that movie before, right? We've seen what happens when you have an open source competitor, which has all these different organizations, even if they mutually don't, you know, like each other, or have incentives aligned with each other, they can all align around, okay, we all want Bitcoin to be better, right? That's extremely powerful. Again, next point, Bitcoin is a network effect, right? So on four sides, this is one of the reasons we believe it's going to be pretty much unstoppable. So miners, developers, merchants, and users miners go in, they coined the currency. And developers basically get more trust in the infrastructure as miners, investment developers and merchants and build applications and things that can be bought and sold for Bitcoin. And then users then have more demand for Bitcoin. This increases the demand and surprise, hence miners mining, and this is kind of one of the feedback loops that we've got here. And so because of this, you know, we you know, is really going to be in our view Bitcoin or nothing, everything is going to be either built on Bitcoin or for a reason Bitcoin will fail. And then we have like 10 years before the next, you know, decentralized currencies like Second Life to VR, and then we had 10 years before Oculus ran. But we don't think Bitcoin is going to fail. If you look at the adoption metrics, they're actually all up other than one, which is a price, which I'll come to in a second. You know, there's more than 8 million wallets. And that's fairly good growth for the ecosystem as a whole. This from late 2014 2015. Record transaction volumes. So transaction volumes and network are up. You know, there's a roadmap to improve scalability of the network to increase the number of transactions per second.

Unknown Speaker  17:13  
There's huge open source and stock traction. So investments and repos. And that's only till mid 2014, it's probably accelerated since then. And in terms of price, the short term view on price is basically that due to the increase in the hash rate, miners and merchants have basically been selling Bitcoin. And this sell pressure has pushed the price down. It's almost like a canonical, you know, Gartner hype cycle sort of Valley.

Unknown Speaker  17:37  
And I'll come back to the point on pricing in a second.

Unknown Speaker  17:40  
But the long term view on price is basically that, you know, over five years, six years, it's gone up five orders of magnitude from one cent to $250. Right? So there is something substantial happening there. But we'll need something new in order to reverse the downward price trend, which is not completely unimportant as an aggregate measure of interest in the Bitcoin ecosystem. So in terms of facts, let me talk through some quick facts and maybe I can even take a question or two. Um, so facts. So you know, people ask, you know, various kinds of questions about Bitcoin is modifiable. And you know, we've gone through some of that already. answer is, yes, there's Bitcoin improved puzzles, much like IRT F's, you know, this a rather IETF request for comments. Is it secure? So that's an important point, basically, in the same way that one can distinguish a counterfeiting operation and a bank robbery, you can distinguish the ability to counterfeit a Bitcoin and to rob an exchange, right? You know, Bitcoin itself, the technology has not been broken, but exchanges have been robbed, you know, in the same way that you know, it's very difficult to counterfeit $1 versus to rob a bank. So while there have been robberies there haven't been counterfeits, Bitcoin isn't scalable. We talked about scalability and one kind of mean that you'll see out there kind of the fourth point over here is, is a blockchain going to win rather than Bitcoin? And we think that that is unlikely mainly because for blockchain to exist as we currently understand it, you need to have Bitcoin, right? So that say, in the lower right corner there, the way that Bitcoin works, is you have transaction, so a pays B and, and C pays a and so on, and with the miner does is they validate these transactions. And in return for validating these transactions, they add an n plus first transaction to that block, which is a direct deposit to themselves, right? That's their incentive for actually running Bitcoin, right? And so because of that, it seems difficult to decouple a blockchain and Bitcoin because that chain of blocks over there is something where to generate the next block in the chain. The miners supposed to get some Bitcoin, right? Hence, without some digital incentive to do this, and decentralized one that any miner can compete on. We don't know how to build such a system, right? So that's why the blockchain not Bitcoin type stuff. That's the narrow interpretation of why it's wrong. The broad interpretation of why it might be right is a blockchain not Bitcoin says that the informational rather than the monetary uses of Bitcoin are going to be the predominant ones over the next five years. For example, device authentication and things like that, right? And so that it's not a completely dumb concept. But it's something which one wants to approach with some degree of sophistication? other concepts, so people talk about the 51% attack, right? That is to say, and I'm getting a little more technical. But if you control more than 50% of mining capacity worldwide, would you be able to degrade the Bitcoin network? That's something that's been known about since the early days, we believe that somewhat overhyped in the sense that there are actually technical countermeasures against it. That's a post by Gavin andresen. on that. Other people ask, does Bitcoin have fundamental value? Is it just like tulips? And so you know, we always say in response to that is yes, they're exactly like tulips that you can teleport anywhere in the world in arbitrary quantities programmatically, right. But the fundamental value of Bitcoin, we think, is essentially that if one believes that databases have value, and I think that is established just by you know, global database penetration and Oracle sales volumes, and so on, the blockchain is a first global, always accessible, unbelievable database. And you can think of an amount of Bitcoin as the right rght to write WRI t to that

Unknown Speaker  21:03  
database.

Unknown Speaker  21:05  
Right? So if database value and if the right to write to a database has value, and then satoshis and Bitcoin have value, independent of any external exchange rate, right? So for example, if you you know, as another example, if you believe that notaries have value like a notary public, right, who you go to, to notarize a document, the blockchain can serve as a public notary, a global public notary, that you can basically go and notarize a document with a small amount of Bitcoin. So that bootstraps value that's like the most, you know, kind of basic industrial use of Bitcoin. And so we do think it does have fundamental legal issues. So I think that, you know, at this point that traction, you know, among governmental institutions is high enough, then people talk about alternatives like Litecoin, and Dogecoin, and stellar, and so on, so forth. So, don't really think any of those is sort of compellingly adventurous or Bitcoin, one of them does is ever mentioned, which is Apple Pay, you know, what is the relationship sort of Apple Pay in Bitcoin. And again, to go to an internet analogy, if you're an early, early 90s, you can branch television in two directions, you can branch in the direction of HDTV, like high definition TV, doing what we've already done just better. And that's a multi billion dollar business, very legitimate business, etc. Or you can branch in the direction of the internet, which initially is kind of, you know, worse, but over time develops in something that's very interesting and powerful. And that's sort of how we compare like Apple Pay versus a Bitcoin Apple Pay is very useful. It's useful today, it's doing what we already are doing better, it's a better way to pay a Crate and Barrel and to do mesoscale transactions. We think Bitcoin is useful for transactions that can even exist today, like, you know, true micro payments, for example. So perhaps the most frequent question is, what about that bitcoin price, right this way people ask. And so the long term view and price one can be sophisticated about if you think about market depth, right, you've got a balance of buy and sell orders, a price does not come from Monza Olympus, a price comes from the interplay of these two kind of factors. And if you've got more buy and sell orders, the you know, the the low point of the valley will move to the right, that is to say it will move towards a higher price. Or conversely, if you've got more sales and buyers will move towards lower price. One way of sort of modeling and thinking about Bitcoin, is if you imagine that every miner is selling all their Bitcoin every day at market price, that gives a quantification of what the sell pressure is on a daily basis. And then conversely, by balance, if the pressure is unstable, with the buyer pressure must feed or to make that price stable, right. So this is roughly, you know, 100 $900,000 about a million dollars a day, currently in terms of sale and buy pressure balancing at $250. One thing that is going to happen next year is having that to see the amount of Bitcoin that is awarded to miners halves and to 12 and a half in Bitcoin rather than 25. So that means that you're still kind of thing drops in half like this, and then the price will start creeping up. Assuming that buy pressure remains constant, this would happen in late 2013 we think that's going to be at least one of the things that's going to mean a run up in price, but at least mid next year. So this is kind of one aspect of prices just a pure buy and sell supply and demand. Um, but there's another aspect of price which we think is very important, which is that you know, the way to not if sell orders are what decrease the price, then you don't want to sell Bitcoin Okay, then

Unknown Speaker  24:14  
why would you get Bitcoin?

Unknown Speaker  24:16  
So, the first answer to get Bitcoin is as a financial instrument that say you buy it with an intent to sell it later on. But a second answer, which is not really there right now is you buy bitcoin in order to use it, right? And a subtlety with Bitcoin that, that people I don't think have yet taken on board completely, is yes, it's possible to buy a you know, a laptop from dell.com but Dell cannot pay its vendors in Bitcoin, right? Therefore, Dell has to initiate a sell order so all you've done is defer the seller by one step in order to buy a laptop from Dell with Bitcoin delden excuse the seller that Bitcoin and then pays its vendors in dollars, right. So what you actually need to sustain the price of bitcoin are closed loops, that is to say, portions of the economy that just depend on Bitcoin going around in the same way that the butcher the baker in the camp. sec maker all exchange dollars in this closed loop, you need something like that in Bitcoin. And to show that that has some precedent, for example, you've got very small countries like Estonia, with 1.3 million people that had their own currency until you know, 2011. Right? And so it is possible with, you know, just a million people to sustain an economy, right, that, you know, where everybody accepts a currency. And Bitcoin is already larger than that, right? But it's on the internet, all these points are dispersed, right? So, you know, the interesting question here is, for the long term sustenance of the bitcoin price, you need these closed loops. And so you need to be able to build not just speculate, And that, to me is basically, you know, the most important question in Bitcoin is, you know, can we build this cloud economy? Right? Can we build those close loops? Can we build a cloud economy? Perhaps the most important question in Bitcoin? What does that look like? Right? When you have people who are dispersed internationally, rather than focused in one geographical area? Is there some way that you can build close loops among them? So just let's recap and summarize. We talked about five different points in this thesis, right? So Bitcoin is a protocol payments are now packets, you can decentralize that centralized actor, the bank, Bitcoin is here to stay, we believe institutional momentum is, you know, runaway at this point.

Unknown Speaker  26:11  
Bitcoin is bigger than Google, in the sense that

Unknown Speaker  26:13  
by public estimates of Google's a server capacity, if they pointed all of the resources at mining, it'd be less than 1%. Because it has a network effect, in the sense that there's four players in this network. And each of them as they grow, they improve the others, because open source is to paypal as Linux is to Windows. And finally, we think the most important question Bitcoin for the price is related to the other most important question, which is, how do we build the top Tommy? Okay, so thank you.

Unknown Speaker  26:43  
Thank you, Balaji. We have We have time for one question. I know that was a quite comprehensive, and there's a lot of things you might want to dive into. So one question only, all the way back? Yeah. So it seems like Bitcoin needs a killer app in order to kind of get this to, in order to fly. Do you have a sense for what that might be? Yeah, sure. So obviously, I have a thesis and I'm going to talk my book here for a second. So with that proviso, written a blog post, which you can google called a Bitcoin miner, in every device and every hand sort of a conscious nod to, you know, Gates's computer and every desk in every home. And we think that integrated Bitcoin mining and devices will among other things, solve the long standing micro payments problem that say, if by plugging your device into the wall, you have a very small amount of satoshis generated continuously. Now you can actually do content micro payments. Now you can actually pay for API's and so on with the digital currency generated on your device, we think that is going to actually be how it's going to start with low stakes transactions rather than high stakes transactions as to say for you know, sort of relatively trivial things like content and for, you know, purchases and so on, versus very high stakes, things like you know, governments and contracts and all that type of stuff.

Unknown Speaker  27:55  
They very much thank you.

Transcribed by https://otter.ai
