Unknown Speaker  0:02  
Welcome to real vision live. I'm Ash Pennington. We're live with Balaji Srinivasan Balaji. How're you doing?

Unknown Speaker  0:07  
Hey ash, how you doing? I'm doing good. I'm doing well,

Unknown Speaker  0:10  
Doc by popular demand and live without a net? Sure.

Unknown Speaker  0:15  
We're gonna be talking today about the having a Bitcoin and a bunch of other things. We've got a great show a lot to cover. So let's just jump in and get started. We talked a little bit when you were last year Balaji. About about your background. You know, I joked with Raul when we were talking about the interview that we did that you, you have more degrees than a thermometer, you spent a lot of time at Stanford, studying some very serious science stuff, chemical engineering, electrical engineering, I think your PhD is in is it microbial genomics? Did I get that right?

Unknown Speaker  0:46  
So I did my PhD formally in electrical engineering, but my thesis work was in genetic circuits of microbes. So using microbial genomes to reconstruct genetic circuits, like how the proteins and small RNAs and so on all talk to each other.

Unknown Speaker  1:01  
I understood about 20% of that, but it sounds okay.

Unknown Speaker  1:05  
So somewhat relevant to today's stuff in the sense of dealing with, you know, bacteria, archaea, viruses and whatnot.

Unknown Speaker  1:12  
Right. You know, it's, it's interesting to me, we touched a little bit on your background, the last time you were on, but I'm curious about just to frame this discussion. How did you make the journey from that background into cryptocurrency blockchain technology distributed? ledger?

Unknown Speaker  1:29  
That's a great questions. So I'd say insofar as I have, like a, you know, I'm a jack of all trades, master of none. But insofar as I have a core disciplinary expertise, it's in statistics and computer science. And so that's kind of a general kind of, you know, tool chain, in the sense that, you know, computer science means you're imposing data structures upon an area and you start accumulating tables of data in a database. And then statistics means that you're analyzing those and making graphs of the columns and the rows and, and all that type of stuff. And, you know, so so from that, basically, it was kind of my home strength, you know, went into genomics, and I did that for almost 10 years in molecular diagnostics, and so on, built a clinical genome factory, basically, robotic sequencing factory in in the late 2000s, and early 2010s. And I was CTO and co founder of that, and then in after the financial crisis in, you know, like, basically, up until 2008 2009, I had not really given much thought, to the macro world to your guy's world. But then after the financial crisis, like many people, you know, but many things that were previously constants became variables, you know, like, the money supply, you know, and M naught, and I'm sure that's been discussed endlessly unreal vision, I know it has. And so, started thinking about that stuff in my spare time. And then after, you know, finishing up counsel, I was looking at, okay, what's next after genomics, not that genomics is not next, but what other things had been advancing, while I had my head down in the details of genome sequencing, and why not because you know, it's a, it's a deep field, you can spend all your life there. And so I looked at drones, and I looked at 3d printing, and I looked at, you know, like, like, all the web technologies, web RTC, and whatever, all that type of stuff. But cryptocurrency really got my attention. And I taught a class in 2013 on a variety of emerging technologies, one of which was Bitcoin. And I also taught that class online, and that got 250,000 students. And, and that was basically how I think I got a bunch of folks into bitcoin and cryptocurrencies in 2013, which was a year when this thing was kind of going vertical.

Unknown Speaker  3:38  
You're extremely early in the space 2013. And yeah, pretty, pretty great reach, especially at that stage of the game, and a lot of people have never heard of cryptocurrency.

Unknown Speaker  3:48  
Yeah, actually, you know, I had gotten into it earlier, but I only really was kind of public about it in 2013. I'd say that, you know, I'd heard about it, like a lot of people in 2011 with the whole Silk Road. Hi, I'm Ron Powell.

Unknown Speaker  4:05  
Sorry to interrupt your video. I know it's a pain in the ass. But look, I want to tell you something important, is I can tell that you really want to learn about what's going on in financial markets and understand the global economy in these complicated times. That's what we do at real vision. So this YouTube channel is a small fraction of what we actually do, you should really come up with a real vision, comm and see the 20 or so videos a week that we produce if this kind of quality of content, the deep analysis and understanding of the world around us. So if you click on the link below, or go to real vision.com it costs you $1 to get a month access to this incredible treasure trove. I don't think you could afford to be without it.

Unknown Speaker  4:48  
Earlier, but I only really was kind of public about it in 2013 I'd say that, you know, I had heard about it. Like a lot of people in 2011 with the whole Silk Road thing and so on, but it was windy. Bitcoin actually, you know, crash after the 2011, you know, attention that was that was placed on it. And it came back over the course of 2012. And that was really impressive to me that it was coming back like that. And so it was in the fall of 2012, that I really like this got really deeply into it. And I remember I had I have a paper, I think that's still kind of timestamp from around that time where I said, you know, this space is interesting, whether Bitcoin itself is a winner or not. cryptocurrencies are interesting, it's a new kind of technology, in the same way that like within genomics, they're, they're various competing technologies, and you don't actually know which one is going to dominate and be the Google of the space. But you know, that that space is interesting, right? And so that was kind of where my head was at in 2012. And, you know, so I, like, accumulated a bunch of BTC, and so on. And then, you know, obviously, things things went relatively well.

Unknown Speaker  5:48  
Yeah, you know, and I know you did a bunch of other things. At some point, there, you built a biotech shop, you sold it for I think, 170 $5 million, and a lot of success through

Unknown Speaker  5:57  
375, but whatever, who's counting 70? Yeah.

Unknown Speaker  6:02  
Yes, so a lot of success and a lot of different spaces that you've had. So it's always interesting to me, when someone who has been as successful as you are in a number of different areas, chooses something and becomes really passionate about it. So you mentioned earlier, go ahead, I'm sorry.

Unknown Speaker  6:17  
No, I was just gonna say like, the bridge from the two was, you know, I got into these emerging technologies, I've been thinking about finance and so on for a while. And that one bridge, a conceptual bridge between the two is that, you know, when you're in academia, the worst thing, especially biotech, academia, or biomedical academia, the worst thing the federal government can do is not renew a grant. Right, so not give you money, okay, because, as a professor, as somebody with a.edu, a stanford.edu, address, a, you know, a reporter, or a government bureaucrat listens to you respectfully, you know, you're essentially telling them what to do, oh, it's a Stanford study, a Harvard study, whatever, they'll actually listen to you. And so academics, you know, kind of get a very different impression of the US government than entrepreneurs. Because the moment you know, so, for example, at Stanford, and they'll connected to Bitcoin in a second, you know, tamper, they used to have these banners, they may still have the banners in the hall at Stanford, you know, Medical Center, called, you know, translational medicine, right? bench to bedside. And, you know, the visual metaphor is, you've got a guy with a bubbling beaker at the lab bench, and he runs to the bedside and gives it to the patient, they cough it and they get up and they're all well, right. So it's like bench to bedside. And, and that's like, you know, what people talk about, it's like, the highest thing you should do. But the moment that you actually Try translating that medicine, you actually get out and you start a.com. Your interface with the federal government suddenly becomes highly adversarial, where they you know, the same person, the same PhD or MD, PhD, or whatever MD that was publishing papers, is suddenly persona non grata, because you're a.com, and therefore, there's a profit motive. And so suddenly, you're a bad person. And, you know, everything you do is suspect, and so on and so forth. It was a huge adjustment. And then, you know, what I started to learn was like, wow, you know, I thought the barrier to you know, getting all the stuff out there was purely technological. And certainly, that's part of it. But a huge part of it is regulatory, where you have regulations that are set up in such a way that it's not, you know, a finely tuned machine where it's, it's calibrating false positive versus false negatives and saying, return down this, but, you know, are we stopping great innovations coming through, it's really more something that's just set up to put barriers in your path, and let things through at the base of quote, reputation, which basically means a large pharma company that can afford to jump through those hoops, and doesn't make a fuss when, you know, the FDA delays it, those kinds of entities get through. So, over that period of four or five years, you know, I realized, wow, like, you know, if this is how heavily regulated diagnostics is, it's not even heavy regulation. It's not really even the right term. It's it's anti innovation regulation, and some of that percolated through to the public, for example, 23andme, you know, people saw the FDA kind of going after 23. me that, by the way, is, you know, now results in the whole Coronavirus debacle, the FDA is block of diagnostic testing is why we have in part the current disaster we have Okay, so pulling it together. So became very interested in regulation, very interested in the mechanisms of regulation. And fundamentally, regulation is about a wanting to transact with B. But see a politically powerful actor gets d a government agency to go and block that transaction. Right. So a voluntary transaction between two parties, there's another party that gets a government agency to block it. So as an example, A is a person who wants to buy from a 24 hour store B. But see a neighbor gets annoyed at this transaction and gets D the local government to zone that transaction into oblivion. Right. Now, you might argue that's a legitimate action. And I might agree with you because the noise of that late night transaction is an externality that disadvantages c unified benefits a and b and therefore it's legitimately Going into oblivion. And so one way you can get around that is you can use technology, for example, you have amazon.com. And now when A is buying from amazon.com, there's no noise, and the neighbor is not annoyed. And so that transaction is no longer zoned. And this is just one of 50 different advantages that internet companies have amazon.com can operate 24 seven in a way the corner store cannot right. So you know,

Unknown Speaker  10:20  
they're good. No, I was going to say, just to give a bit of the background in the context of so many things that we could talk about, we could do a week of shows on on any one of these topics. But just to give a little bit of context, you were at Stanford, as a professor, you taught there a number of different classes, and I think in your typically a very diverse array of backgrounds. And for those people who are not familiar with with York, there was a bit of an uprising on Twitter, early in the Trump administration to get you appointed as head of the FDA. Yeah, yeah. Well, friends that were putting in the valley, who were putting you forward and saying, Listen, you want to shake things up in Washington, you want an FDA, that's, that's radical, you want an FDA that's going to do some crazy wild stuff that's going to really push to actually solve disease, and to cure people and to treat patients biology is the guy for the job.

Unknown Speaker  11:06  
So you know, the thing is, I can tell you, um, I guess, you know, I haven't actually talked about this before, but I can tell you, you know, what, what that was like, and what have you. But, so first is, you know, I could have been Deputy Commissioner. So number two, that was on the table. But I The reason I turned that down is several reasons. First is, you know, I had 10 years in technology, I understood the industry and so on. But Washington is something where it's a shooting gallery. And, you know, if, if you don't have 10, or 20 years in the swamp, it doesn't matter, you can't really proceed on pure merit, you need connections, and so on and so forth. With that said, Here's actually, you know, what I would have done is minimum necessary change at the FDA, if you want to know what my plan would have been on the first day, okay? Yes, very much. Alright, so my first day plan, first thing I was said is to everybody look on, almost everybody here, your job is unchanged, I'm actually not the crazy, radical libertarian ish guy, you think I am, Okay, number one. Number two, I would like to give you all a raise. But I can't do that just because of federal pay schedules. However, what I will do is make it feasible for everybody to work from home. And there's actually stuff around this Now, of course, that's, that's being totally legalized due to Corona and so on. But there's stuff around expanding work from home and whatnot. And the reason that work from home is important is it's kind of like giving people a race, they don't have to drive, they get more hours for their family, all that type of stuff, right? optional, of course, but would have been a big thing. And the third thing I would have done is I would have basically taken set up an exam for the top thousand people, let's say at FDA, to come in by examination and set up regional centers for fast track approval of medical devices, drugs, vaccines, etc. In collaboration with local, you know, governors and mayors, and also, you know, internationally renowned universities. And this is actually what sort of starting to happen with these wet you know, these compacts that are happening like the western states compact or the Midwestern compact, the northeastern compact, the, the, you know, tri state area compact, where you'd have, for example, Columbia and Cornell working with New York State, or Harvard working with, you know, the Northeast, for Mayo Clinic, working with the Midwest, or Stanford and UW working with the West Coast. And and you have essentially local competing centers of excellence, that are trying to get things through such that you're actually subjecting regulation itself to control trials. that had not been done. Okay, because right, so the point is, everybody talks about control trials, control trials, but there hasn't been a controlled trial for the regulation itself, which is the meta kind of question, right? So applying science to regulation itself, we need to actually have a jurisdiction with a law, without it to actually see what the effect of that law is, right. And so that would have basically been whatever to done. And, you know, everybody who wanted to could have still kept the original FDA pathway. But those who wanted to opt into this new kind of pathway could have done something where let's say they pledge 10% of their equity to, you know, the state of California or the western states compact so that the citizenry get get a benefit. Maybe it's 20%. Maybe it's 40%. Okay, but the thing is that venture capitalists, entrepreneurs, many of the folks who get into this space are actually not money motivated, they're, they're motivated by making a difference. And if you could get something out to the public years ahead of time, people would give up profit in order to do that, because it would mean live saved. And so I think that that there's there's room for for, for change there they don't think is being exploited yet. And it hasn't been taken advantage of and hopefully, some of these Western cities can do okay, but coming back around all the way

Unknown Speaker  14:45  
so that one of the first times I've ever heard you speak publicly about that?

Unknown Speaker  14:49  
Yeah, it's only the first time I've spoken publicly about it. It's been a while in the past, I'll probably write an essay or something on it. Um,

Unknown Speaker  14:55  
well, you know, it's so interesting, just the sort of polarizing reaction that that That speculation provided in polarizing in the best way. There were people who were saying, this is a radical split. This is how you actually do innovation. This is how you make government actually save lives, how you create change how you apply all the wisdom that we've learned in Silicon Valley to this regulatory process so that we can have the outcomes that we need. And then on the other side of the coin, not surprisingly, you had people saying, you know, Henny, Penny, the sky is falling, this is the sellout of the FDA to so moneyed interests, sure people are going to die. So you have these really radical divergent views. But it's also so interesting to me, because while you see that clash around that, around the rumor around the speculation, it's very clear to me that if we look at this on a 20, or 40, or 50, year time horizon, right, the direction that you're moving in with this is the direction that the country is broadly going just because we've learned so much. We've innovated so greatly if you look at, you know, what, what we have been able to accomplish with information technology, the ideas, the philosophies, the capacity to execute, it's very clear that this is the direction that we're going. Now, there's still some questions that we have to work out, there's still some things that we need to figure out. But this is clearly the overall overarching direction.

Unknown Speaker  16:05  
I mean, to me, Corona has shown us that the cost of not the cost of risk aversion is massively risky, right? Like I say, if you don't take lots of small calculated risks along the way, where Yes, people might die, you have this, the system that's incapable of rapid physical innovation that is led literally to the loss of trillions of dollars and 100,000 dead and a million infected. And that's all on the FDA. Right? Like, you know, should I say all? I'd say a lot of it is on the FDA for holding back a generation of biomedical innovation. And so yes, I totally agree with you. I don't even think it's a 10 or 20 year thing, I think we're going to now unleash a bunch of biomedical innovation, having seen the consequence of holding it back. This, by the way, brings me to crypto right, which is,

Unknown Speaker  16:51  
I know, we've talked, we've talked for 20 minutes, but you know, it's not every day that you have someone who might have radically changed an agency like the FDA, so we have to cover?

Unknown Speaker  16:59  
Well, yeah, I mean, the thing is, you know, sometimes you need the timing, you need events, right? And I think that Corona will be to the FDA, what crypto was to the Fed, right, an entire generation of entrepreneurs. And people recognize that the previous dispensation failed, and it failed dramatically. And in fact, a huge chunk of the population has now learned that, and a system that was for lack of a term I call it optimized for optics, right? So many things in the federal bureaucracy, or frankly, any government are set up like a Potemkin village where, you know, they're meant to basically would stand like one or two journalists poking in those chests for an official quote, and they really won't poke too far. They won't try to add two plus two up to get five and so on. They won't really diligence it around the side. It's an expert, and they don't question the expert. Look at how, you know, folks have excused their Corona coverage. Oh, we ask the expert. And they were wrong, right. And so so what happens is, you have these things that are Potemkin villages. And it's only when there's like a, you know, I would call it 100 year flood. But frankly, we're getting these floods every 10 years or so, when there's a 10 year flood. You see, oh, the CIA doesn't actually know what it's doing with w MDS in Iraq. Oh, you know, the Fed actually didn't know how to prevent recessions with, you know, the 2008 crisis. Oh, the FDA and CDC actually don't know how to prevent infectious disease or drive by medical innovation. And you see, it's all a Potemkin village. And it all falls over when there's a big enough thing that it cannot be obscured, you know, when individuals are basically forced to basically become amateur, you know, economists in 2008 2009, or amateur epidemiologists and infectious diseases, specialists stay simply because the folks they outsource that to couldn't do their job. And I think that's a you know, it's bad in some ways, obviously, the folks you've outsourced to can do job, but it's also, you know, long term sense, something that unblocks innovation, because people realize that, you know, look, you can't just just outsource this, you have to do it yourself. This brings us to crypto, right.

Unknown Speaker  19:01  
So we're in fact,

Unknown Speaker  19:03  
perfect thing. Right. So, you know, essentially, um, I think, you know, Satoshi Nakamoto, his timing couldn't have been better, where, you know, Bitcoin was released about three or four months after the financial crisis in January 2009 was the first Genesis block the actual on the block of Bitcoin. And if you did finish to like October, November 2009 2008, rather. And it's good. Yeah, but how, how the news when the white paper came out, I forget the exact date, but I think it was around then. And then 30 days later, the Genesis block was mid January 3 2009, I believe. I think that's right. And, um, and the thing about that was, you know, Bitcoin wasn't just a technological breakthrough isn't just a technological breakthrough, though, is that it's also a conceptual and philosophical breakthrough, where from there are many design decisions Satoshi made that he just didn't understand unless you understood the problem that he was trying to solve. But the reason I call him he is that's what he put on his, you know, profile or whatever online, you know, he had self self put that. And so the thing about, you know, the problem he's trying to solve was, you know, so called trust minimization. It's often phrased as a trustless system. But I think a somewhat better way of phrasing it is a choice of whom to trust. Because, you know, the thing is that right now, you know, there's sort of a, I should say, a battle a discussion within the crypto space as to whether the ideal is crypto anarchy, or something that I call crypto civilization. And what I mean by that is Bitcoin and crypto more generally, and there's a bunch of other internet tools that are like this encryption, you know, and so on, allow you to essentially draw trust with your balances from banks, right, withdraw your consent from encrypted channels, and so on, you know, like, like you're not consenting to be eavesdropped on to withdraw your consent from the centralized systems. But then the question is, do you just like, you know, try to be a pirate on the high seas? And trust no one are, you know, is it Mad Max, right? That's a crypto anarchy vision, arguably, at least for some, but to me, the right answer is crypto civilization, where you, you pull your pointers, you pull your backlinks, you pull your deposits out, but you then re centralize around a better system. Because and I think that's a real subtlety that's missed. It's not just centralization versus decentralization, there's also re centralization, where you have a vision for a better system than the one that you left. Because people also don't really want to live in an anarchic world, they do want to outsource some things over time. They don't want to try to do everything full stack themselves. as just one example. You when you go to Starbucks, you don't want to take a dip stick with you to try to test every single drink or whether it's poisoned, right. You know, you want to be able to enter a store and not, you know, necessarily be defrauded with every single possible transaction, right? Like you do want a regulated marketplace. But you want a choice of who that regulator is when the current regulators lost your trust, right? This is

Unknown Speaker  22:08  
interesting, because it's been a very much a middle position between the sort of crypto anarchists and the one cap and the traditionalist on the other who are terrified of cryptocurrency. So it's an interesting hybrid. And it's my sort of expectation that that's the direction that the industry more broadly is going. We can talk a lot about the philosophical issues around it, but we're starting to get a lot of questions in right now about the heart, what we are not there to talk about. So before we actually talk about the hobbing itself, let's set this up to explain just very broadly, the context in which this is happening, specifically, the importance of proof of work mining and block rewards and securing the Bitcoin blockchain and why it's so important to understand to get to the house.

Unknown Speaker  22:51  
Sure, great question. So um, you know, one of bitcoins fundamental value propositions is that there are a fixed number of BTC, and roughly 21 million BTC. And there will never be any more. And that's baked into the protocol. And the way this works is approximately every 10 minutes, a block is mined by miners, who are all competing to mine that block. And that block includes within it, all of the transactions that that miner has chosen to mine, and is essentially appended to all the previous blocks of transactions. And as a consequence of mining that block, the miner can award themselves a certain amount of BTC. And roughly every four years, though, it's sped up as we'll get to roughly every four years, that amount of BTC, the miner can award themselves drops in half, from 50, to 25, to 12.5, to 6.25, and so on. And that, that having is essentially a choke on the supply of new BTC that's introduced. And in general, when you have a market with fixed demand and newly constrained supply, you will usually see a price spike. Now what's happened before is about six months or so to the extent that Bitcoin has any predictability because a very unpredictable space on the order of six months ish after every having, there's been a huge surge in the price on and you know, think things have gone to the moon and so on and so forth.

Unknown Speaker  24:27  
Which is the reason why there's so much focus on it right? This isn't right now there's an expectation or interest from people who are not traditional computer scientists they're interested in because exactly as you say, the price has gone to the moon when this has happened before.

Unknown Speaker  24:39  
Yeah, that's exactly right. That's exactly right. Um, and you know, it's something where it's, it's very clever. The way the having is, I mean, the biggest thing about BTC it is a predictable monetary policy. You don't wake up one morning and you see fed announces $3 trillion repo or somebody messes with the interest rate. You have a predictable monetary policy. And what's what's really interesting is over the last roughly 10 years, I guess it is now 10 years, 10 years of Bitcoin, it's 11 years actually, you've actually seen how many different forces want to interfere with monetary policy. Right? For example, they want to unwind transactions, right? They want to create blocks where they award themselves some money, they want to issue new coins, to pay for various, you know, like transaction fee things for miners to pay themselves, they want to freeze funds, all of that type of stuff, you can argue whether that's necessary, strictly monetary policy, or whether that's, you know, more like the visa style, transaction policies and so on. But people do want to mess with this stuff. And what they've been able to do is mess with that on chains that are outside of Bitcoin for the most part, they haven't really been able to mess with it within Bitcoin itself. And that's this remarkable, remarkable thing where something that is just truly rigid. It disappoints lots of people in the short term, but long term, it's super reliable and interesting, and something that you can plan for the long term on. And that's very powerful.

Unknown Speaker  26:11  
Yeah, I'll give the counterpoint to that argument versus people who favor and more activist fed, the CounterPoint would be that should the productive capacity of an economy depend on rigid fixed schedules when there are when there are shocks that are, by nature unpredictable, and the Fed needs to respond by having a monetary policy that is dictated exclusively by you know, laws that have been written into code ahead of time, you diminish the capacity of a central bank to actively manage an economy and the obvious example that some who are akin to that view would point to would be, for example, the Coronavirus shock, if you did not have a Fed to stop in, to step in and and stimulate the economy, demand would fall off a cliff supply would collapse, and the economy would go over the edge goes that line of thinking, What's your assure

Unknown Speaker  27:00  
that sort of concept? So you know, one way of thinking about it is, you know, when a company issues equity, right, like it, basically it's printing new shares. And that's not necessarily a bad thing. You know, it can it can raise money doing this, right. But it is disciplined by the market, where every actor in the market can choose to retain dollars, rather than purchasing into this share class. And if that company doesn't have a growth rationale, right? If it doesn't have, you know, fundamentals that justify its issuance of new shares, that people will decide to hold on to their USD rather than buying into shares of XYZ stock, right? So yes, they can print, but they're disciplined and held accountable by the market, right? In the same way. BTC is it now now shift that roll over one, right? The the Federal Reserve, or any country can issue new currency? And then you have some argument, which says, Hey, you know, this is necessary to return us to growth, you know, we're going to use the proceeds for this than the other. But the BTC holder can opt out of that, they can say no, and that is new and very powerful, that you can opt out of all of these government's active monetary policies and what have you. And you can say, No, now, I personally think that all of this printing is, you know, you know, just like with a company, right, there's companies that are, you know, they use equity and debt wisely. Right. And there's companies that do not right, Amazon, I trust Jeff Bezos, you know, I think, you know, he's a very good allocator of capital, a blockbuster or, or, you know, other companies that, you know, I won't I don't attack anybody or whatever. There's lots of other companies that are not good allocators of capital. And the way that the US government, for example, is allocated capital during the coronavirus crisis, I would not say is optimal, you know, of those $2 trillion, how much went to masks and drugs and vaccines and tests and so on, versus various kinds of political things, which we're all finding out about now. Right? Um, it wasn't, it wasn't like, you know, done by philosopher kings. It was it was something that was done because it could and a bunch of pigs came to the trough, and we don't even know what's in the bill. $2 trillion dollars is a lot of money. You know, and there's another $3 trillion in you know, trillion here. trillionaires, you say, you know, you're talking real money, right? And, you know, really, when we're thinking about that is, it's a gigantic dilution of everybody's dollar holdings. Now, I know that view to some is controversial. But if you think about it, from that standpoint, where it's sort of like diluting people down on a cap table, you print a bunch of dollars. And if you're especially if you're using it to like bailout stocks and things like that, where the stock market seems to be surging even as unemployment crashing, it's arguably like the upward redistribution of wealth, right? Where you're basically diluting down everybody but you're using the money to buy stocks, and you're bailing out equity holders, but not everybody's an equity holder, because, you know, like many people don't own shares. And so then you start getting into territory where it's like, okay, there's clearly political Use of these funds. It's not, um, it's not something that everybody agrees with. And so therefore, how do I withdraw my consent from that? And that's BTC.

Unknown Speaker  30:09  
Well, dilution never happens, Valley.

Unknown Speaker  30:13  
Sure, no, no. I mean, that's the thing. Like, what's what's what's great about tech and about startups and so on, is you see companies born and you see them die, and you see some of them, a few of them grow. And you just learn so much out of that process. This is also why I think, you know, tech folks, at least some of them were kind of, like, paranoid, you know, I don't really like that term. But Andy Grove, you said, you know, like, paranoid? Yeah, it's because you've seen many examples of corporate death. Right? you've actually seen companies go bust for bad reasons. And as such, you kind of know that, you know, like a bullet was was by your, by your ear. You know, Winston Churchill has the saying, like, you know, there's a great deal of Ruin in a country. There isn't a great deal of Ruin in a company. Number one, right. And, you know, there's, within a country, there's a great deal of Ruin, but not an infinite amount. Right. You know, Spain is no longer, you know, an international power neither is, you know, arguably, the Soviet Union. So, so yeah, I think that's a role that BTC serves, you know, in an interesting way, by the way, I

Unknown Speaker  31:24  
was gonna say, it's so interesting to talk about that philosophy of the valley. And there's another quote, variously attributed to Winston Churchill and George Washington, that there's no more exhilarating feeling, I'm paraphrasing here than to have bullets whiz by your ear without effect. Yeah. And and it is, it is, it's interesting about the philosophy of the valley. And one of the things that what, you know, one of the reasons I, like many people began my career as a consultant, because you're able to get a lot of experience very quickly. And Silicon Valley, you know, one of the chief attributes of it is the the, the speed at which companies can rise and fall because things are digital, because you're not physically building, you know, plants and all these sort of things, you can see a great deal more happen a great deal faster than you can anywhere else. So the experience in that particular region of the company in that country, in that particular sector of the economy, I think brings so much to the table for you know, the models that we're going to use, not just in Washington, but here in New York and in finance. And it's something that is, I think, incredibly exciting. And we're seeing it and having you on real vision, I think is very much a part of that broader trend to have people like you had this experience, and they're not a lot of them who have at the level that you've had it, bring that experience to a broader array of problems. That's what you're doing, I think on Twitter, with, you know, you're running commentary about the Coronavirus con contra controversies, in terms of the way that the government is responding to it. And also now with with cryptocurrency So getting back to the to the topic at hand. Sure. Oh, here we are, we're coming up to the housing. What are your expectations concretely about what is going to happen in the weeks and months ahead?

Unknown Speaker  32:59  
Well, I mean, I'm on long BTC but I've been long BTC for I mean, like I don't know if you've seen my like Twitter, you know, bio thing or whatever, if you go to, like archive or what have you for a long time it was, you know, I think this Bitcoin thing is a big deal since like late 2013. I've had by by Bitcoin as my, if you go to my Twitter heading, so I've always been long BTC but I've always resisted giving, you know, forecasts because, you know, frankly, that's that's your guys bag. Right? That's it That's a traders bag. That's, you know what I like about cryptocurrency? What's interesting, is it's a, it's a domain where venture capitalists lean need to learn timing. And East Coast folks need to learn technical diligence. Right, like, because the VC model actually one way of thinking about it is you buy the all time high in the expectation that goes higher, right? You know, you buy if you think about It's kind of crazy, but that actually that strategy actually often works, right? In the sense of you buy the series A or the Series B in, you know, Facebook, and it goes up, you know, 100 x or 1000 x from there, and you sell it at IPO because it's going right exponential. And, you know, whereas with crypto, it's not necessarily like that it goes up and down and up and down. It's like a publicly traded startup. So, you know, long term, I'm very bullish on Bitcoin and, and on, frankly on aetherium and z cash and a few others. But I'm, you know, I never give like a short term price prediction because it's crypto, right. Like, who knows, you know, what's going to happen next week or next month? You know, it's it's a very, it's a crazy space, but buy and hold for five years. 10 years, I don't think you'll be disappointed.

Unknown Speaker  34:50  
Yeah, and that gets us into some of the questions our our, my screen here is lighting up. Religion plus subscribers are watching this and the questions are coming in fast. So let's start out. So this was coming to us from Melvin, after the handling if Bitcoin prices drop a little, many miners will stop being profitable. He says, transaction costs would have to go up exponentially to cover mining costs. Is there a real risk in that scenario that Bitcoin is creating its own? And Melvin sounds a little bit bearish on this? What would you say?

Unknown Speaker  35:19  
I don't think so. I mean, at this point in 2020, it's a very mature market, the mining market, people spreadsheet this stuff out to I mean, multiple decimal places years out and have all kinds of envelope functions. There's, there's functioning derivatives markets, for example, like, folks can offload risk, if the price goes too low, like miners will do that, you know, that it's not something where, I mean, yes, the marginal miner will go out of business. But, um, I mean, this is a very predictable event. It's not, it's not like a Corona or somewhere that's opposite. It's extremely predictable that the halving was going to happen. So these folks have budgeted for that. And if they if they didn't, then they'll go out of business. And then the difficulty will readjust. And it'll things will continue.

Unknown Speaker  36:00  
Just talk a little bit very quickly about about the difficulty in a transaction and why that's so important. And how that adds a safety valve have a dynamic ability to recalculate?

Unknown Speaker  36:10  
Sure, yeah. So, so difficulty is one of the most non obvious things in the Bitcoin protocol. And the basically thinking about it is, every every 10 minutes or so, there's a Bitcoin block that is mined or, and what's happening is, different miners are competing to take different transactions, and, you know, pull them together, into into a block. And when they're doing so they're trying to calculate something called a hash. And the difficulty represents roughly how many leading zeros are aren't that hash, they're basically trying to solve an inequality. And the number of leading zeros is roughly how difficult it is to find a solution to that inequality, there's actually a very large number of possible solutions. But as the number of zeros increases, it becomes you know, harder and harder and harder to find such a solution.

Unknown Speaker  37:08  
This is the nonce and, and the actual,

Unknown Speaker  37:12  
well, the nonce is an input to this, this problem. Essentially, you're computing a function of a few variables. It's it's a nonce, it's the transactions, it's the block header, and it is the miners own address. That's that's put in to like get get the funds back. And what you what you get out is so, so, let me explain how the difficulty works. So for like a layman, the basic idea is no matter how much compute is thrown at the Bitcoin network, it readjusts such that Bitcoin blocks are mined roughly every 10 minutes. And the reason it does this, because it's very counterintuitive. You would think, wait, if I throw a more computer that shouldn't approve transactions faster, right? That was one of the most counterintuitive aspects of the Bitcoin protocol when I first started learning about it. Why is this not something where you throw more computer into runs faster? And the answer is that compute is not meant to make it run faster, that computer is intended to make it run more securely. That is to say, to make it harder to go and rewrite history and have people aboard themselves BTC in the past, that they didn't have today to unwind the chain and rewind it. And that concept of extremely expensive to falsify history, right? Like, essentially, digital unbelievable history is super powerful. Because if you can use it to give a record of who has what money in the world, you can use it. I mean, that's an extremely important fact, to align upon, right? Whether you're in you know, the Middle East or in Brazil or in Japan or in the US. Everybody agrees on the state of the Bitcoin blockchain. I mean, folks can't agree on you know, like, like how many people are dead or Coronavirus? It can't agree on like, really basic facts about the world. It's amazing how polarized things are right. But this they have to agree on, because it's a mathematical fact, that's extremely difficult to falsify, right, no matter what else, other crazy things they believe. And it's very powerful. And I think it's a way to sort of rebuild truth and consensus in an adversarial environment where you have economically incentivized, you know, actors who want to kind of try to falsify truth. So the difficulty does is basically it takes these these different, you know, miners, and it forces them to mine every 10 minutes, such that even if there's a ton of new mining power that comes on the network, they'll mine at a faster rate for a while. And the difficulty will readjust such that they're, again, mining every 10 minutes,

Unknown Speaker  39:45  
complexity jumps on board in that respect to 10 minutes. So

Unknown Speaker  39:49  
let's just say it's on average, I should say on 10 minutes, you know,

Unknown Speaker  39:52  
whenever we get we get a lot of questions here. So Sammy has just sold some property. He's done very well. He's obviously interested in the space And his question is, I think one that a lot of people have, which is how do you think of a callin allocating the capital that you've shot on this web on a profit? And what proportion would you allocate to Bitcoin and aetherium. And just by way of a little bit of context here for people who are not as familiar as with the space, as you are, roughly, there's a measure called the BDI Bitcoin dominance index, which is what percentage of the total market cap or enterprise value or network value is represented by Bitcoin and today, as we're doing this broadcast, it's about 67.4%, meaning that roughly two thirds of every dollar in the crypto publicly traded cryptocurrency right now are in Bitcoin. So to get back to Sandy's question, how you allocate capital between Bitcoin and aetherium, and other coins, if that interests you as well?

Unknown Speaker  40:47  
Yeah, so I mean, you know, people have, they used to ask me this question all the time. And when I was at Andreessen Horowitz when I was at Coinbase, I couldn't give an answer. And now I will, I will choose not to give an answer. Or rather what, let me explain why. What I will say is,

Unknown Speaker  41:05  
by the way, I have to break it and say it's been part of your life. And another part that people might not know about is you were you were the CTO of Coinbase. And their partner at Andreessen Horowitz, two of the classic gilt edged Silicon Valley companies, and and significant players in both the VC space and probably the dominant player in in the Bitcoin.

Unknown Speaker  41:29  
b2c space.

Unknown Speaker  41:30  
Yes, yeah, that's, I think that's right. I'm very kind. I think so. So just so on this specific question, I think, with respect to so the reason I couldn't give answers then is I was statutorily and institutionally constrained, right? Um, you know, here's what I would say, I would say, if, if you don't know what you're doing in the space yet, buy BTC and learn, right? You know, first, most people will buy BTC, custodia, Li on Coinbase, then they'll get a wallet, they'll play around with it, they'll immerse themselves in the community, they'll develop their own theses on it. And you know, the thing about crypto is, it's like this, it's this amazing junction where people come to it from a bunch of different disciplines, you know, you come to it from computer science, you come to it from like libertarian political theory, you come to it from venture capital, and entrepreneurship, they come to it from Wall Street and finance, you know, it come to it from economics, some people come to it from just pure gambling, you know, in day trading, right. And, and, you know, it's a, it's something other folks like supply chain, you know, or other kinds of things, right. And so it's this meeting of a bunch of different kinds of cultures. And what's going to happen is, you're going to come in with some thesis on it, and then you're going to, you know, BTC is sort of like the, the lingua franca of this crypto baybel. Everybody, no matter what the kryptos subculture knows, and respects BTC you know, if you're in aetherium, or you're an EOS, or you're in Zee cash, or you're in cosmos, or whatever, BTC is just kind of the universal sort of denominator. So you really won't go wrong by you know, having BTC. But then, from that point, what you do next is going to be based on the kind of thing that I mean, many people just stop there, by the way, some people stop there simply because they can't, or don't want to diligence, anything else. And it's it's actually totally legitimate. It's like buying index funds, you know, you buy an index fund, and unless you're a professional stock picker, you're probably not going to be the index fund, you know, and even if you are, you may not be the index fund. And that's kind of what BTC is, it's sort of like the index of crypto and get to be pretty good within the space to beat that. Right? So for many people, I would just say, stick with that. Right? Um, but then if you want to go further, it depends on sort of your thesis and how you're exploring the space. For example, if you're very much into privacy, then looking at z cash is interesting. If you're interested in program building and from the developers and and not just z cash, but other z k snark related things, you know, grin and zero knowledge proofs, zero knowledge proofs. That's right, exactly right. So some amazing stuff that's happening there in terms of privacy, preserving computation, hugely important, frankly, for where the internet is going. And it'll bubble and develop over time. But so that's like one angle, if you care about that. Another angle, if you care about finance, is to get into aetherium and defy where every single financial instrument is being rebuilt on chain from, you know, derivatives to stocks and bonds and what have you, and you can basically set up a Bloomberg terminal, anywhere from your computer without a Bloomberg terminal fee. Okay? And that's insanely valuable and interesting, because what's going to happen is just like, you know, Twitter, how many folks were for journalists in like 1995 versus posting on By 2015, you know, it went from, you know, a few thousand people to hundreds of millions of people posting online in the same way crypto is going to if the internet turned the world into publishers, crypto is going to turn the world into investors and finance ears. And so if you're interested in that, then aetherium and defy, and all of the new, like protocols that are related to that are interesting.

Unknown Speaker  45:21  
You know, this is a space I have a real vision is very interested in we're looking into right now doing some doing some content on precisely that. Let me just move on here because we got a lot of questions coming in. Sure. So this is one and this actually touches on the point that you were just making in some ways. So we get a question coming in from loser religion plus subscribers saying, My question is, why in the crypto space, is Bitcoin considered the standard? Is it just because they refer to the space and it become the de facto standard because of that?

Unknown Speaker  45:48  
It's a bunch of things. I certainly that's one component of it, like they Bitcoin innovated on a number of different dimensions simultaneously, in the same way the iPhone did, you know, like, the iPhone, even, even from today's vantage point, if you go back and look at it, it was the multi touch screen, and it was, you know, programmability, it was a bunch of things, it was a true leap, you know, and Bitcoin was a true leap in a number of different ways. It was truly decentralized in the sense of, you know, there, the database of transactions was not hosted on any one machine. The protocol work despite handling money, it, you know, proved robust to a number of different kinds of attacks over time. And it built a community and the founder disappeared. And in all these other things, it's it's kind of like Unix, you know, now, it's become something where, no matter what else you do in cryptocurrency, you usually start off by explaining how it differs from BTC. Right? You know, like, like Ethereum, when it came out, like was, its tutorial started with, okay, here's how you understand if you're in concepts in Bitcoin terms, right? Right. So it's just become this kind of lingua franca. And then, you know, for example, you go and you talk to, like, I talked to a relative the other day, and they were like, Oh, Balaji, what kind of Bitcoin should I buy? Right. And that's a completely I laughed, of course, but it's a it's a completely legitimate question for somebody outside the space. You know what I mean? Like, like, they, they the vocabulary isn't fully there. But that's like, the brand recognition thing has, you know, and, and that's like, it's combination of brand first mover, disappeared, founder, adoption, all those things together.

Unknown Speaker  47:30  
Right, then maybe if I wanted to be a little bit facetious, I could say, but none of us are writing shell scripts in Emacs any longer.

Unknown Speaker  47:35  
I am.

Unknown Speaker  47:38  
I would have thought you were a vi kind of guy.

Unknown Speaker  47:40  
I love Emacs. But that's because it's got our integration. And so I can do all my stuff. Like with if you can run our within Emacs, and vim doesn't. I'm sure there's people who will flame me about this but Emacs for life.

Unknown Speaker  47:55  
We've just gotten deep into the nerd. Talking of which we have a really interesting question from Bjorn. Another revision plus subscriber, who said perhaps what about the perhaps misconceived notion that quantum computing can disrupt the $20 million limited Bitcoin supply? Is that narrative 100% wrong. So um, you know,

Unknown Speaker  48:13  
like, quiet, that's actually a good argument in the sense of, that's a kind of thing that, in theory could break assumptions behind a big one. But there's folks who are working on on not just quantum decryption, but quantum encryption. I'm not enough of an expert in the area to, like, I'm not on the frontiers of quantum computing. But I do know that there's a, there's actually, I think, Dan Benet is either working on or is published something on this. My, my short version is, in the event that the hash function is actually compromised, it is possible to swap out the hash function. And so then you'd have to ask, okay, would you have a scenario where quantum decryption was possible by a centralized adversary, but quantum encryption was not. And I guess you could imagine situations like that, where, you know, you had a Manhattan Project like thing by the Chinese government or a large government that could do quantum decryption. But, you know, you couldn't do quantum encryption locally. However, I think you'd have to get into the guts of the algorithms and I don't know enough about it, you know, to not have the cutting edge of that right now. I do think however, and I'll always say when I don't know something you don't mean, um, I do think, however, that Dan is writing something on this or has published something on it. So if I have a link, I might tweeted it out later on Twitter. Fantastic.

Unknown Speaker  49:43  
No one can ever accuse us Balaji j, I'm not going deep enough into the weeds we've touched on so another version, plus subscriber Don is asking I said you briefly mentioned some of the other kryptos that you are in that you're an investor in, can you be more specific about the kryptos you're in And explain why you like them. And maybe a little bit for me a little bit about the context and use case for why the kryptos you're in You are so enthusiastic about right now.

Unknown Speaker  50:09  
So, I mean, I mean, a lot of cryptocurrencies assume that, you know, most anything legitimate, I have, like a small stake in it, at least over have you. And the reason for that is actually a few fold. You know, I believe in BTC, but I also believe in, you know, freedom of speech, I believe in the fact that people should be able to not be d platformed, that they should be able to own their own distribution channels to be able to monetize online, to be able to encrypt their communications, all that type of stuff. And I think that we're gonna need more than BTC to protect freedom on the internet. And, you know, like Corona has kind of accelerated that where governments are taking up incredible levels of you no invasiveness in terms of privacy, and what have you, some of it justified, arguably, by the crisis, but none of it will be surrendered after the crisis, you know, that's a big lesson we've learned, you know, is whatever powers they take on, even if maybe they solve the problem, which is maybe they won't be given up. And so, you know,

Unknown Speaker  51:12  
it's true across the board of governments, it's not just a unique

Unknown Speaker  51:16  
Yes, absolutely. That's right. It's not really a critique, it's, it's just the ratchet only goes one way, it's very hard to get people once you've got a bureaucracy in place. And, you know, you, for example, required the pandemic, to get HHS to finally allow people to do telemedicine across, you know, state borders, basically, you know, to allow doctors to practice like, Oh, my God, a Texas doctor, practicing in Oklahoma, this is like a huge deal. Right? Right. So, so bureaucracies have a way of their own, we're really only a crisis, kind of, you know, break them up. And so the kinds of technologies I'm interested in, are those that complement BTC, where BTC is a digital gold, I don't feel threatened. But I do think we also need a digital banking system. I think we need private coins. I think we're going to need for example, streaming video, and, you know, unsensible, messaging, and, and, and all this other type of stuff, right. And I think that crypto will be a massive component of that. Even if it takes 510 15 years for the whole thing to build out. We'll see. I think it's gonna get accelerated as a function of this, by the way, and that's a whole separate thing we can get into. You know, I, I tweeted this actually ash, you know, Act One, is the virus crisis activity, economic crash, right. Do we talk about this yet?

Unknown Speaker  52:29  
I think we might have touched on it a bit in the last interview,

Unknown Speaker  52:32  
I'll riff on it for a second, okay, which is, okay. So, in the virus crisis, you know, which is still ongoing, of course, you know, people had to execute what I call it digital Dunkirk, you know, Dunkirk evacuation to the cloud, you know, right, and insert to it to escape the viral blitzkrieg, which is coming there, people evacuated to the cloud, and everyone who can is trying to work remote and, you know, do everything they possibly can online as opposed to going in person and so, okay, so, um, and live to fight another day, basically, and gather information on the virus and then counter attack, right. Okay. Um, Now, the reason that that has at least kind of worked, is that the graphical web is at least 25 years old, going back to, you know, 1994. And, you know, the internet is even older than that, obviously, going back further. And so these, these services were at the scale of hundreds of millions, or in some cases, billions of users, Google and Facebook, on in zoom didn't collapse and buckle, you know, like, for the most part, these tech services stayed up, you know, and which is actually remarkable, just given how much load there under, right. It's like, actually kind of amazing. But that's, that's something where I think might Okay, so here's an edge case. All right. I'm not saying it's 100% probability. I'm not even saying it's 50% probability. Okay. But I think it's more than zero percent probability that we have a bunch of different tidal waves that have been kicked off by this viral Meteor hitting it's not you know, unemployment people have seen, right. But there's a bunch more of these Thanksgiving Day charts. You know what I mean by Thanksgiving Day chart ash, right, like talent charts seem to lab we're for Yeah, that's exactly right. That's right. So so like, Turkey, Turkey is healthy, healthy, healthy, and then day, 1001 just kind of goes down like this, right? And the the economy is filled with these Thanksgiving Day charts. It's its oil prices, its bonds, its left and right, you know, things are just getting killed. And in some cases, going vertical in the case of like, Slack, or what have you, right, but or Microsoft Teams, but for the most part, just getting axed. And there's a there's a scenario which is on a genuine economic crash, where, you know, for example, you know, 2008 was a near miss financial crisis, right, right. That's why there's a crisis, it wasn't a crash, you know, ATM still worked, you know, check still cleared and so on and so forth. You know, it's possible that they're just printing you know, the system as a 10 x as much slack that the financial crisis even then it didn't push to the limit. And you could print $3 trillion a week or a month or whatever, I don't even know how many trillion they've been printing up till now that you can have all of these things break at the same time that you can have, I don't know, 60% of the economy shutdown bailing out the other 40% or whatever the numbers are, because it's, it's happening in real time, you know, like, retail goes bust and tourism goes bust and air travel goes bust and hotels goes bust and everything goes bust. But you still send out bailing out with printing money, maybe that's not how it works. Or maybe we get something which is a combination, deflation and inflation of the following kind, deflation in the sense of a crash in the price of everything people don't want anymore, like travel like hotels, concerts, you know, restaurants, bars, right? All of these things relate to crowds or to leisure. You know, there's a crash in prices, there's people husband, they're cashing in your given uncertain times. And then you have a spike in prices for all the things people do want, like masks, like PRL, which we've already seen, by the way, I don't know if you saw like Amazon's charts, right, those have already gone up. And, you know, it's this, like, the models have to adjust to

Unknown Speaker  56:09  
this right, the traditional definition of inflation is that it's a sustained, broad based thing. But though, the question is, you know, what the price of it's really hard to find that 95 mask, and you know, you know, in May of 2020, and also the risk of food price inflation as a separate category.

Unknown Speaker  56:24  
That's exactly right. Yeah, that's right. That's exactly right. In fact, actually, I tweeted this last year, which is, you know, people were like, Oh, hey, where's the inflation? And there's actually a good graph, which shows, you know, and you can look at my twitter or wherever the inflation is, you know, is here, it's just not evenly distributed. Right? That is, it was soaring in, in the sense of let's let's more narrowly define it as price real price increases, right? happened in education, in healthcare, in, in real estate, right, and in food, and so on, like the areas that our rent was regulating, or subsidizing, or bailing out or whatever, in some way. And

Unknown Speaker  57:01  
it's been dramatic, especially if you look at a 20 year chart, if you look at the price, in healthcare, and in education, it is overwhelming and massive, and their feed traffic is creating a huge amount of debt and consumers.

Unknown Speaker  57:13  
That's exactly right. And also, of course, inflation and asset prices, right? Like because it's printing money, where to go went into at least some of that into banks and buying up assets, including startup stock, other kinds of stocks, right? bonds, all this stuff. And then you have you've had a crash in prices, with everything technology has touched, right. And that's a narrative of last 10 years, arguably. And I think it's even in fast forward. And roughly that narrative is you have a tug of war between the inflation of the East Coast, which is trying to bail out zombie industries, right. In the 2008 crisis, it was bailing out the automakers bailing out the banks, propping up real estate by buying mortgage backed securities, and then you know, trying to prop things up the zombie industries and what have you remember, like, GM is alive and you know, Asana is dead, that kind of stuff, right. And on the other side, you have the West Coast, callow disruptors who are coming in and trying to crash prices and things right crashed the price with Uber and with Airbnb, and with stripe and with these other kinds of things, like bring prices down, you know, disrupt these industries. And, and there's kind of a tug of war between these two areas. And pretty much everything that technology is touched, the price is hyper deflated. This, by the way, I think is a very underappreciated aspect of the economy. Technology is actually increased equality in a few ways. One way it's increased equality is the hyper deflation of informational goods, for example, Larry Page, and a random Joe have essentially the same Wikipedia experience, essentially the same Google experience or StackOverflow experience, because it's so cheap, that it's just an internet connection. And you know, a kid in Africa and a kid in Palo Alto have basically the same experience. You know, a second way is you have, you know, basically, it's much easier to be a tech billionaire than to be president. It was way more billionaires than presidents, right? You know, when kids grew up in the US, or Aaron's told, oh, anyone can be president. Well, actually, statistically, it's easier to become a tech billionaires The second way in terms of opportunity. And a third sense is in terms of power inequality. If you only have, you know, for example, in the Soviet Union, who was the second most powerful guy after Stalin,

Unknown Speaker  59:25  
mountain golf, I don't know who this is.

Unknown Speaker  59:27  
Yeah, at various times, you might have said Trotsky, or he might said Kirov, right. And they both got capped. Right. You know, and, and so the number two person in the Soviet Union, you basically don't know who they are, right? You know, or usually they're very much, you know, under the gun, right? Literally under the gun, right. Whereas the number two folks in the US, you might say, Zuckerberg, you might say, Bezos right you there's credible independent power centers, beyond just you know, Washington DC, right and say Jay Powell as well. You Exactly. That's right. And, and so so that is actually something where on that third dimension, there's a greater degree of power equality. Rather than just one super powerful godlike dictator president, you actually have all these billionaires who can mobilize and a master on resources. And the case of, for example, Bill Gates going in funding a bunch of different vaccines, maybe we're very grateful for that. Right. We're grateful that there's someone who can allocate those resources, and we don't have all of our chips in one basket there. Right. So let me just go ahead.

Unknown Speaker  1:00:30  
No, I was gonna say we've my producers just texted me, I can't believe this. But we're getting close to the one hour mark. This is absolutely flown by. I just wanted to hit you with maybe three quick sort of speed round questions, please. With thoughts. Real vision plus subscriber Oh, and has curious about what your thoughts are on XRP? On ripple?

Unknown Speaker  1:00:49  
No comment.

Unknown Speaker  1:00:51  
It's always a controversial one. Is Bitcoin is coming to us from john. Is Bitcoin an alternative to Fiat? Or is it an alternative? asset? like gold? 2.0? Interesting question.

Unknown Speaker  1:01:03  
Um, I mean, it's alternative to both I think, you know, I have nothing against folks who are into gold, or frankly, even folks who hold dollars, but I do think that, um, I mean, you know, gold is kind of the past, right? Like, there's, I mean, the fact that you can custody BTC on your local hard drive, um, one way of thinking about it, I remember, I tweet this a while ago, but in in 10 years, you know, it's, it's going to be something where bitcoins been around for 20 years. And, you know, to like the 30 year olds and finance, it might as well be gold. You know, it's been around since, you know, like, think about the internet, right? Like it, let's say you were 10 years old, in, in the year 2000. Okay, and now you're 30 years old and 2020. Does the internet seem like this newfangled thing, where it's a question mark as to whether to use it for business? No, it's basically your life. It's totally integrated to your life. Right? And so Dad, I think, is the right kind of long term thesis on the thing is, when you start getting, you know, it larger and larger and larger chunk of finance professionals who are like, Oh, yeah, Bitcoin, of course. You know, just like email, of course, I mean, email is now old, right? texting is now old. It's kind of like that. Right. And I think that is, is more important than pointing to like the 4000 year history of gold is more the generational turnover within finance. So by 2030, and certainly by 2040, you just have something where heads of state heads of major banks, you know, heads of major companies have grown up holding BTC. And that's a very different kind of matter.

Unknown Speaker  1:02:46  
Right. So final one, this is coming to us from Adam, is if BTC is an alternative currency, and it begins to gain market share of transactions and the money supply, what's to stop the fed from destroying?

Unknown Speaker  1:03:02  
Well, I think, um,

Unknown Speaker  1:03:05  
let me get a few answers,

Unknown Speaker  1:03:07  
by the way, and so I finished that question, but it's a

Unknown Speaker  1:03:08  
shark. Sure. Sure. Sure. So I'll give a few inches at first is, I actually think the US government has now a bunch of folks in it who understand cryptocurrencies have been fairly friendly to it. Which is not something you would have thought in 2013. But it's certainly something today, for example, there's a congressional Bitcoin caucus. There's, you know, folks like Hester at the SEC, who's published good stuff. There's folks who understand it's a technological innovation, right, Congressman, you understand it can't be banned. number one.

Unknown Speaker  1:03:40  
Number two, bid tried initially, there were a few.

Unknown Speaker  1:03:44  
Yeah, the number two is basically frankly, the federal government isn't competent. If you look at its Corona response, it hasn't been able to ban the virus. And Bitcoin is also a decentralized actor, where there's no one person you can go after to stop it or shut down. It's an international computer network number two.

Unknown Speaker  1:04:04  
And and number three is

Unknown Speaker  1:04:08  
it's, it's sort of something where, you know, like, do I think like the final lightning round backlash kind of thing has begun yet? No, I do think that it's possible that if Bitcoin goes to 100,000 or a million, once it actually starts constraining, governmental, monetary policy and fiscal policy, yes, you will get a different level of reaction. However, I think a fair number of governments will embrace it and buy BTC for their own reserve just like they hold gold. And so long as a enough governments do that Bitcoin survives. And if it survives, then it wins. Because you'd have to ban it and stop it in every country simultaneously, and it'd be a huge huge, huge logistical undertaking where the entire community is set up, you know, to fight From the beginning, so we'll see what happens.

Unknown Speaker  1:05:02  
I'm also a bit optimistic about about us regulators. I think that we have, I think so yeah, very smart people who really want to do the right thing. And I think that it's very clear that this has been a tremendous, tremendous font of innovation for the country, I think. I think

Unknown Speaker  1:05:15  
that's right. And the smart thing would basically be Look, the US is going to be in a huge pickle after isn't a huge collapse is Corona crisis. You want crypto entrepreneurs to set up in the US and you want to take a forward looking approach with respect to this technology and check these entrepreneurs. Right, you

Unknown Speaker  1:05:31  
know, and as we start to as we start to wind down here, because we're running out of time, unfortunately, one of the main themes that we've covered in this conversation, and I think it's one that we talked about in our last conversation is this, just this overarching theme of east meets west of the collision of the power centers of New York of Silicon Valley, of the new ways that these two very distinct ways of looking at the world, the Washington slash New York view, on the one hand, and those are not exactly the same, but that sort of access, and then the Silicon Valley, entrepreneurial, very sort of tech centric way of looking at things as these worldviews begin to move closer together and integrate. I'm curious if you have any closing thoughts on that broader point?

Unknown Speaker  1:06:10  
Um, yeah, so I think that that's actually the new, you know, for lack of better term political access in the US. It used to be north or south. But actually, that's fading away, and that the new political axis is East Coast, West Coast, centralized decentralized. policy, vers technology. You know, like, I do think that, you know, let's call it nationalist slash socialist versus internationalist capitalist, you know, mmt versus BTC. I do think that that is, you know, you know, let's say, the military versus technology like these, these are, I think, this is where the dyad, I think, is going to come over the next, you know, few years, because there are different ways of dealing with a problem is your first impulse, someone should do something, which is the policy impulse, you know, there ought to be a law for is your first impulse, I should do something, and, you know, go and write some code, and you know, there ought to be a company, right? Those are very, very, very different starting points in terms of where your locus of control is how you think about things. And so I'm not saying either one is right or wrong. But I do think that is we're rotating and I think a lot of the old divisions or what have you become less relevant. And that's kind of more how we think about it. The decentralized versus centralized. So great, actually, video on this, which is Hamilton, verse Satoshi. Which you guys should watch. If you haven't yet. You should send it out to the real vision, folks. Reid Hoffman did a fantastic we'll check it out. So final point, Balaji. Come back, switch chairs with me and interview someone on the on the East Coast establishment. Let's have a dialogue on real vision with you leading the conversation about east meets west. Awesome. I the first thing I'm going to ask negative discount rates. I've got my own thesis on it, but want to hear about that.

Unknown Speaker  1:08:02  
That sounds great. I'd love to watch that. Cool. All right. Let's do it. Balaji. Thanks for joining us again.

Unknown Speaker  1:08:08  
Thank you. If you like what you see on our YouTube channel, you can unlock everything that real vision has to offer from expert analysis in depth reports, education and more to help you understand finance, business and the global economy. You can get all that and more for just $1 for 30 days.

Transcribed by https://otter.ai
