Unknown Speaker  0:28  
Hey guys, welcome back to episode eight a blog channel. We are quite lucky to have the guests that we have on today. We're really honored to be joined by Balaji Srinivasan Today I believe I said his name correctly and I've have not pleased I would like him to let me know. And we're also joined by Dr. Cory petit petit, do you want to go ahead and introduce yourself?

Unknown Speaker  0:50  
Hey, guys host number three, the Bitcoin podcast just coming in to talk topology here and see what's going on about his views and visions, and they are in the Bitcoin space.

Unknown Speaker  1:01  
Now and Balaji, you know, we, we, I don't want to formally be the one to give you your intro because I feel like you can obviously do that way better than myself. But I'm sure many of our listeners are familiar with who you are. But if you just want to give us an intro explanation on your background, and how you're right here today.

Balaji Srinivasan  1:19  
Sure, and great to be with you here, Steven and Cory, um, quick background. So I met Stanford liker that to say did my undergrad and PhD degrees there, I taught computer science and statistics there for a few years, I started a genomics company, which became pretty successful. After that, I did three things, I taught a MOOC on startups, which, at the time was one of the most popular MOOCs ever, with about 200 250,000 students worldwide. Um, I found 21, formerly 26. And as part time there for a few years, and I was also a general partner at Andreessen Horowitz. And so from 2013 to 2015, I was full time at Andreessen Horowitz and part time at 26. And then 2015, full time at 21. And part time, in addition, I'm still doing investments and so on. And looking in particular at the regulated industries, especially Bitcoin and biomedicine, but you know, drones, self driving cars, all that stuff, as an investor, and then as a entrepreneur and CEO. I'm working on.

Unknown Speaker  2:33  
That's quite a bit of it's quite a bit of work. Right? I would I mean, I'd say for a relatively short amount of time, it's, it's clear, you're you've kind of put your foot to the grindstone for a long period of time and produced quite a bit of things that have been successful, or relatively successful, if you kind of compare them to other things. What what do you what are you currently working on businesses you're involved in right now, we'd like you to kind of here's your chance to plug everything you're doing everything you'd like to be doing right now. And, and kind of initiatives or recent projects that you feel are really important?

Balaji Srinivasan  3:08  
Sure, well, um, yeah, the most important thing I'm working on now is definitely 21. And we actually put something out there, we sort of soft launched or last couple of weeks, we haven't even like, formally launched launched yet, but we'll put out a blog post soon. Um, the idea is, if you go to 20 one.co, you can set up a public profile, that is effectively a replacement for a public email address. And so now people outside your network can pay to get in touch with you. And you can keep the money or you can donate it to charity. And this is a basic primitive that we're going to be using as a foundation for other things. But we think it's one of the first really useful applications of digital currency, which even somebody who's not a digital currency afficionado can understand and value and use and we've started to see actually quite a few people signing up for it. So that's, that's the primary thing that I'm working on right now.

Unknown Speaker  4:13  
All right, uh, what about what about currently, like in the, in the space? How do you feel about the future of Bitcoin and blockchain because it's, it seems like last year, we've seen a very large, almost like year of proof of concept year of on ramping and developing a lot of that basic infrastructure to kind of really build what the vision of this technology is kind of set out to do. And this year, we might start to see a lot of those proof of concepts turn into something that can be used on a on a product level people like real end users starting to interact with the technology. How do you feel about the space and its development it for this year and kind of what's the comp Do you feel like it's lagging? Do you feel like it's on par with what it set out to do or it's right on target?

Balaji Srinivasan  4:58  
Yeah, so on What I think is that there's a thing called the Gartner hype cycle, which we sort of think of it Andreessen Horowitz is almost a law technology. And if you Google, it's spelled Gartner ga RT and er. And this is actually this concept of, when you've got a new technology first people get very excited about it. And there's a hype peak that happens. And then what happens is, a lot of folks get attracted to technology, because there's just tons of talk about it, they try to actually use it for something beyond a proof of concept. And they find that it's got this limitation or that limitation, or there's technical difficulty. And relatively quickly, people start to lose faith in the technology and think it was all hype, there's all just a bag of hot air, then there's a relatively small number of people who stick with it, who were drawn in by the hype, or they were, you know, made aware of it by the hype, but they also have the guts and the gumption to stick with it, even through the loads. And those are the folks who then increase the utility of it. And you know, then you get to this point where the technology is actually useful. You can see that on a very large scale with the.com bubble in 2000. Now, almost 17 years ago, were in the 90s, everybody had all these ideas about the internet could do. And then, based on those expectations, there's a huge spike, and then a crash in the market that took three years or more to recover from. And it was only really, several years after that recovery, that people start to realize, Oh, this web 2.0 thing is, is a real thing, that the new wave of internet companies is real. And of course, there's a 2008 crash. And then it took almost 10 years in some ways for people to say okay, well, this internet thing really, really does work. And with Bitcoin, on it's been through multiple cycles like this, as have many technologies, by the way, Bitcoin went through its first cycle, which actually reflected the pace price graph, in 2011, there's a peak of hype, and then it crashed down. And then it's the next one in early 2013. And then it's next one in early 2014. And with each, you know, hype cycle, you know, crash, and then recovery, a new way that people were brought in, those people suddenly became more pragmatic, more mainstream in some ways, and increase the demand for Bitcoin. And, you know, started getting aspects of technology and other things. And I think a similar sort of thing is happening with the offshoots of Bitcoin, as typically all coins, you know, blockchain and aetherium. So all coins themselves, I think, have short track Bitcoin in the sense that there's a lot of hype around them in early 2014, then people lost faith in them, and it kind of crashed down. And now they're starting to come back again with z cash and whatnot. So the general concept of old coin trading, these like poly chain, for example, are now springing up that are focused on all coin trading shapeshifters make it much, much easier to do this, and people are starting to recognize, okay, there's potentially applications outside of the ones that Bitcoin permits, where you'd have some exchange rate of Bitcoin versus say z cash, and then go and do whatever you want to do z cash and then come back to Bitcoin. So all kinds of sort of track Bitcoin, they're starting to come back up on the hype cycle on blockchain and aetherium. And by blockchain, I refer to private permission, Ledger's that the banks and so on, have used and aetherium is, as you know, the next large public blockchain went through hype cycles with their peaks, and I would argue 2016, and now sort of crashed down and they're in their relative troughs. And the idea here is that with aetherium, I would say, post dow, it definitely, you know, lost a lot of people or energy, and then, you know, there's been all these hard forks and so instantly, with that said, I do greatly respect the work that those folks have done. I do think that they have put forth a lot of interesting ideas and push the space forward. And I do think that there will ultimately be Ethereum applications on and I actually also know that they went through one, you know, hype peak and trough before, where, you know, they did their crowdfund. And then afterwards, you know, vitalic had a hard time of it for about two years before then they had their spike to one bill earlier last year. And so these things go through multiple cycles like this, and what what you have to do is be tough enough to get out the tough times and then come back to the good times. So I think they will do it eventually. But they're in that you know, sort of relatively tough time period right now. And with blockchain with permission ledger, that's that similar, where a bunch of banks got, you know, excited about this guy who's on the cover the economist, lots of folks getting into the space and then trying to apply it and finding various practical and institutional difficulties when doing so for example, if if selling to a company is hard, you know, we often refer to enterprise sales is like getting a bill through college.

Well, selling to a consortium is even harder, because it's like getting an international treaty passed. You're not just getting a nation to agree to something, you're getting a bunch of nations who are all competing in the sense, for example, a bunch of banks to all agree on using a central database. And that's not they're not Central, but you know, a distributed ledger. And it's not that easy to do. So social kinds of things that have made adoption private watchings hard and then it's also just the sort of question of well, what add yours from Bitcoin? What exactly does it mean to have a private blockchain? Is there a silver concert hashing in any way? Is there still any, you know, who has the permissions? Do you need private keys in the same way? These are things that various folks have developed different solutions to? And though, they'll punch it out and let the market decide? Um, I am, you know, of the folks in that space? I think there's some smart people on I think that chain comm is very good. Adam Ludwin is quite smart. I think that Preston Byrne and the guys at Aaron monex, monex. Natalie renamed themselves. That's right. I think they're pretty smart on but we'll see what happens. You know, I, I do also think that we're private blockchain is landed up is a somewhat more pragmatic area, in the same way that Santander recently recognized me about six months ago or something that recently but relatively recently recognized that they need some kind of token to execute contracts on a private blockchain, they assume I think, those who are within the Bitcoin space, I have realized, well, you know, there is a continuum, because a payment channel is effectively a private blockchain between two parties, because you have to maintain state that is outside of the blockchain itself, and then you settle there and as a cryptographically, you know, trustworthy private blockchain. But nevertheless, it is a you know, it is off chain state of some kind, then you can go up one more level, and you can say, well, any off chain database, it's eventually synchronized out to the public blockchain, like Coinbase is internal database is kind of a private blockchain. And then you get up to full public blockchains, like aetherium, and Bitcoin. And so I think some years from prior blockchain will actually be used within Bitcoin. And it'll start to all melt together. That's like, very similar to intranet, and Internet's when you select somebody, you're not really thinking about whether it's over the company, internet, or a company intranet, or whether it's over the internet, in fact, you might have some people working from home, and that's over the Internet, and others are in the office of the intranet, but it all blends together, you just use different tools to get the job done. And in the same way, we may see a relatively near future where folks will trade in and out of all coins, like z cash, they will use private blockchains, maybe for high performance and public blockchains. And they want it to be, you know, recorded to the watching record. And maybe they'll use aetherium for certain things that Bitcoin can't do, or vice versa. So I like I, that'd be my ideal, I think, a pragmatic and holistic feature where most of these things succeed. So it's a long winded answer. But, you

Unknown Speaker  13:04  
know, I mean, that answered any possible extra add on up, I could have added into there. So so so so that's excellent, I love I love the fact that you do see the vision for the interoperability between like z cash and Bitcoin and aetherium because I do believe personally, just as you do that, I think that that's ultimately where Bitcoin is going. So but do you think that personally, do you think that Bitcoin and it's like current development, do you think that it's stagnation in any way? Like, like, currently what with like seg wit and that trying to get that activated and things of that nature? Do you think that will ultimately like hold it back from interoperability with these other chains? anyway? What do you think that Bitcoin will just contain the finesse into this thing? And like, and work in amongst them and in some, some capacity and relatively quickly?

Balaji Srinivasan  13:46  
Yeah, so let's see, the interoperability is really just a function of exchange rate. So it is a very arm's length interoperability where Bitcoin can interoperate with any old coin five, simply selling Bitcoin buying the all coin and doing what you want to do. And then if you so decide buying the coin back again at the end, in fact, Peter odd has said, I think that that he buys Manero or z cash when he wants to do private transactions and then trades back into bitcoin afterwards. Um, he said he's not a long term holder of Zee cash, which is fine. That's his prerogative, but never see he does use it. And so So that right there in trop is already there. You don't need any programming. Even something as simple. I mean, it's a great service. I'm not trying to denigrate in any way but even it's even something as conceptually simple a shape shift, where you simply buy and sell out in in the currency is in trouble, Mom, respect to the other issues in terms of, you know, quote, stagnation, uh, you know, this is something where I can definitely see both sides of the argument. On the one hand, once you've gotten something like Bitcoin to work, uh, you don't want to screw it up. And there's an argument for being relatively conservative on a $10 billion market cap currency, right? It is, you know, probably going to be the backbone for a lot of these other things, or maybe you can take a higher risk and some old coin, and then you can, you know, have Bitcoin be the relatively stable backbone. That's definitely one argument. And the other argument is, of course, you know, well, we want to have some capacity increase of some kind and the political wrangling community has made that difficult to come by where each party has enough votes effectively with mining to block one versus the other. Um, you know, what I think is, in some ways, it's similar, not exactly analogous, but similar to the period from roughly 1998 to 2004, where the front end of the web stabilized under IE six, and by 2004, something like 98, or 99% of browsers are using IE six. And while that had downsides, the UPS, many downsides, the upside was that, you know, a whole generation of internet companies could come to maturity, Google could, and Amazon could, and eBay could and PayPal could and whatnot, because they had an imperfect, a buggy, but a stable despite being buggy base from which to work. And they develop sophisticated, you know, modifications that like Ajax, which worked around those limitations, and eventually, the browser wars, reopen with, you know, Firefox, and eventually, you know, Safari and Chrome. And so that's like one possible, you know, path that we go down, where Bitcoin remains hard to change, just like IE six, and HTML for for a long time. And then all the innovation happens out of layers, and then we sort of consolidate around this imperfect, but useful thing, and then eventually, we have another burst of innovation happening later. That's that's one possible scenario. Hmm.

Unknown Speaker  16:39  
That's a very interesting way of putting it Ivan private heard that that particular analogy with the the browser wars and iecex being somewhat they'll, despite how buggy it was, it was the the standard for how the whole thing was built outside of it.

Balaji Srinivasan  16:54  
heavy enough. I think, though, just just to clarify, basically, there is one obvious big difference between Bitcoin versus IE six, which is that a Bitcoin isn't just to be software, it's also got the distributed ledger and that true ledger represents money. So on the resistance to changing it is significantly higher than there is with a browser where if a browser crashes, then you've got a bigger issue on So not every aspect of the analogy doesn't hold up. And I can understand why there are folks who are strict blockchain constructionists so to speak. And I'm sympathetic to that, actually, because a lot of the folks who got into bitcoin in the early days got into it, because it was a form of money that was more resistant to political wrangling and harder to change and harder to, you know, do things like, you know, arbitrary changes in monetary policy. So I'm sympathetic to all that. Um, you know, I just want to make that point, just in case like someone says, Oh, we making a difference

Unknown Speaker  17:48  
should always be mentioned, when given trying to give these imperfect analogies that consensus is really difficult and changing it is, is incredibly painstaking. And but it's, it's worth the effort. How do you like because of that, like, do you have any potential advice for young developers, entrepreneurs and people who are interested in getting into the space, whether it be Bitcoin blockchain crypto, however, there's a lot of ways you can get into it. Is there any way that you are advice you can give developers to take advantage of Vegas versus the 21.1 computer and short medium long term?

Balaji Srinivasan  18:24  
Yeah, so so by the term computer is sold out on so that that was basically something that we did as a proof of concept to show what kinds of things we built with intrinsic, you know, Bitcoin, LinkedIn, something, if you actually go to our website to Anadarko, front slash learn, there's a tutorial there, which is actually press dodges the profiles, there's actually external there that says, um, you know, charge somebody, for every SMS they send you without giving out your phone number. So, you know, that achieves its purpose in the sense of, you know, having us experiment with a bunch of sort of Bitcoin native kind of things. That leads me to my next point, which is, in terms of advice to younger developers, what not, I would say, uh, you know, maybe a few things. So first is obviously master the basics, like you should be able to do in JavaScript and HTML and, you know, whatever backend language you want, whether it's Python or go or what have you, I'd recommend Python and Django simply because you also get NumPy. And so you get some more scientific computing, you know, apparatus there. You know, rails can do Django can do almost everything else, pretty much, but then it also gives you scientific computing. So it's just easier, I think, go has certain advantages, no GS, you know, I'm not getting saying anything. But point is, number one, just master the fundamentals of blocking and tackling. Maybe an obvious point, but worth mentioning. And number two is like, you know, while new technologies are awesome, it is very important to try to articulate why that new technology gives you a 10 x over something that people already want to do. So you know there's there's interesting tension to mixture between two different models of new products. The first, cause that conventional model is one where you, you know, you put something out. And it's truly breakthrough and disruptive. And it's different from everything that's come before. And it's transformed. And it's a big advance. The second model was sort of the Evan Williams model, which is, people's wants and needs are pretty much the same. They want to communicate, they want to, you know, reproduce, etc. They want to get food. But see, then before, right, and hence, you know, you go from sending the message, somebody via physical mail, to email to Facebook, to Twitter. And you know, each time you're just doing it faster, the same things that people have done. However, with that said, as you go through each step of that each adjacent step just seems like an improvement, where you start putting them together, you get qualitatively different things, for example, you go from physical mail to email, Well, okay, fine, you've taken away the stamp you've made an instant. Those are some pretty big things, going from an email thread to Facebook also seems reasonable, you go from a reply all, where you're pasting in your photos of your wedding, or whatever, and getting people's comments to a Facebook thread where you're doing that. However, if you take two generations, and you try and compare physical mail, not to email, but to a Facebook thread, then you start realizing how big a jump it is. Because if you imagine trying to model a Facebook thread on on your wedding, or what have you with physical mail, you'd be sending out a postcard to say 100 people, all of them would have to go and get stamps and postcards and have to know the addresses of the other 99 people essentially here, they'd write their one comment on there, and then they'd send it out, right? If you think about that, right, logistically, um, that's actually a huge cost, right? That's so huge, that it was a behavior that you'd never do. And, among other things, the guy who sent it out would probably not include the addresses other night, and then people on that thing, which is like extremely expensive and extremely time consuming. Now, it can happen in the blink of an eye. And we don't even think about it, because it went through the intermediary of something that was, you know, email. So and just to put a fine point on it, you went from physical mail of like one to one to email one to one, then reply all, which is one to n, and then a Facebook thread, which is like into n. Right? So anyway, so that's basically, you know, how certain changes can come about where each step is evolutionary, but when you put them together, you're like, wow, society changed a lot. Because these big things became so cheap and so fast that qualitatively new things start to happen. So what is my advice to young developers is basically find something that's like that where you meet on the on the very surface level, on the immediate level, it is an improvement over something people already wants to do. But then you can game out long term, distal consequences that are qualitatively different.

Unknown Speaker  22:57  
Excellent, excellent. So that so I love the the advice here like for developers, but I do have I do have a question for you in regards to like, from a business perspective, like entrepreneur perspective, like, like from a from a VC and from like your, your experience, right? in this in this space, where like, the technology is evolving so quickly, where we go through like one narrative where it's like Bitcoin, is that blockchain? Is it back to public chains, you know, back to, you know, whatever flavor of the month is, like, what is your advice as like? A guest sort of, like, from a VC standpoint, for individuals that want to build something on one of these technologies, but they're not really they're uncomfortable making a commitment to one particular technology? Because they think it won't get them enough interest? or something? Like, do you? Is there a way that you could possibly suggest what with all this stuff going on in crypto, how somebody can like, more easily make a decision on what to build on?

Balaji Srinivasan  23:49  
Um, you should work backwards from the problem you want to solve and then find the best technology for it.

Unknown Speaker  23:55  
Not that excellent, excellent. So I was just yeah, I'm just generally overall, like curious if, if you had any sort of like, experience about like, as a VC in crypto things, things to avoid?

Balaji Srinivasan  24:06  
Well, okay, so let me give an analogy. Just, you know, right now, when you've got a bunch of technologies punching out, you basically have to make an educated guess. And sometimes I guess, is wrong. So given another analogy, so back in, I think 2009 or 2010, there was a reasonable hypothesis by a lot of smart people in Silicon Valley that html5 would be the next big thing. And that, you know, native mobile apps were, you know, not really going to be the wave of the future. And that the web was was the way for, and that turned out to be wrong, on at least for a long period of time that, you know, basically, for last decade, native apps have been extremely important, and so wrong that, you know, when Facebook came to its IPO in 2012, people don't really remember this, but its mobile app was really, really poor. And it didn't have any mobile revenue speak of, because they made a huge bet on cross platform html5. So something where You know, there are two technologies, they seem neck and neck. And just one of them, you know, just got much more traction than the other right, which is, you know, where iOS apps and Android apps got and versus html5 cross platform. Now, what eventually happened was just happened really last year is Facebook took its licks, it went and became a first class iOS and Android shop, and shipped many, many iterations, and became basically the number one mobile app on both platforms in the world. And they built up their mobile business, such that they had more mobile users and otherwise, and then they also became this incredible mobile advertising business, where they're driving all these mobile installs. And it's most of the revenue, right? So they completely crushed it on every dimension there were they made a bad technology choice. But then they were smart enough and resourceful enough to be able to recover from that, and in fact, become number one again. Now, later, 2016 2017, they just put out React Native, about a year and a half ago, react and React Native. And that has actually become the cross platform layer that they wanted, even six years ago. So they went and took another crack at and it did work. So I guess my answer on that is make an educated guess, based on you know, what technology you have. But be ready and have a good enough team. I mean, obviously, Facebook is one of the very best, that have a good enough team where if you make the wrong decision, you're constantly monitoring it. And then you can pull the ripcord and change directions if you find that you're really gone behind the APR.

Unknown Speaker  26:25  
I think that that's a perfect analogy of kind of a great segue to kind of the next question of what I kind of wanted to get into, which is, so you mentioned earlier, something that I try and use as a as an imperfect analogy a lot. And that's the internet's versus internet argument. And I've always seen the rise of Internet's as one company's infinite corporations, not comfortable with the size and scale of the internet at the time. And they're essentially a enabler of the internet to scale. Because eventually, as the internet got more trustworthy, they then linked into it because they needed to communicate with people outside of their of their network. And I almost see the consortium private blockchain aspect of the space as the intranet of, of the of the cryptocurrency space. And if they're almost enabling Bitcoin, to scale, or they're enabling people to jump into the space and test out the technology without getting into the, what they might imagine as the cesspool of the internet, like, you know what I mean, they're afraid to release a lot of things, maybe potentially, because the technology isn't ready to have all of that is. And as we've seen, from the political debates of the block size, and kind of the governance models and how we're working on those things, it may not be ready to handle that type of that type of scale. And, like, I was just curious about your opinion on that analogy as a kind of enabling enabling upscaling.

Balaji Srinivasan  28:05  
Yeah, I mean, so I think it's actually a very good analogy. You know, all analogies are perfect is a very good one. Um, the thing is just like with an intranet, you could connect it to the internet. In the same way, if you've got a private blockchain, or you've got an internal Consortium, well, those transactions are going to be probably denominated in dollars or yen or somewhere, which just have an exchange rate. So in a sense, there's already a bridge of some kind, right? Because you know, what the exchange rate is of the internal things versus Bitcoin? And the question is whether that bridge becomes formalized. And, and I think it will, over time, It'll take a while. But, you know, for example, Microsoft, under Satya Nadella relatively recently came out maybe two years or three years ago with their Microsoft tools for Linux, and like Linux support for all types of stuff. Right? And, you know, basically, that would have been absolutely unheard of, you know, 10 years ago, but you could completely imagine within five years on major banks without you know, blinking an eye having Bitcoin or and or aetherium and or maybe even z cash support. Um, I think Bitcoin is more likely in a theorem Bitcoin a theorem more likely right now z cash shorts get outside of their comfort zone, probably. But that's actually what's interesting, like, relative to z cash, Bitcoin is actually, you know, pretty trackable and mainstream. So, I think probably within within five years, probably sooner, you're going to start having at least one or two large banks, not just with some private blockchain deployments, but some bridge the larger crypto environment. Fred actually fed or some recently, you know, said something i thought was funny, but also true, is that you know, in his retirement, maybe he'll he'll be at the Goldman crypto trading desk.

Unknown Speaker  29:46  
That's all that held up.

Unknown Speaker  29:49  
I thought I saw on my contract today, too. I meant to ask him about what's he up to now, but that's great. So, I guess, I guess if we have anything else here anything because we've asked pretty much everything we wanted to cover from you and pick your brain in regards to like business and and since you've had so much experience in the space is there anything you would want to leave our listeners with in regards to like 21 like either as far as like anything to look forward to like any like upcoming announcements anything that just just just generally overall get people excited

Balaji Srinivasan  30:19  
yeah go sign up a term code because your name might go away so you want to get traffic for Steven or you want to get you know turned to Corey or what have you. Go there now and get get sign up. We've got a lot of stuff coming.

Unknown Speaker  30:33  
Awesome. Excellent. Excellent. All right. Well, I think that's everything for us today. Hopefully everyone enjoyed our conversations and our discussions and in you know, once 21 has the you know, the more so like build out these like these platforms on the you guys are like focusing on right now. We'd love to have you back on and learn learn more about what what's come out of there. All right,

Balaji Srinivasan  30:51  
thank you Steven. Thanks for

Unknown Speaker  30:54  
watching you have a great day. This episode of block channel was sponsored by purse dial purse that IO is the easiest way to spend Bitcoin and save money on everything you love. Amazon even have iOS and Android apps for shopping on the go. Versus holding an hackathon at Hack Reactor in San Francisco on the weekend of March 24 for developers interested in building on Bitcoin versus full node wallet implementation written in JavaScript. So check out the links in the show notes register if you're curious and want to attend top prizes $100 in Bitcoin signed copy of the Internet of money by Andres antonopoulos Anna ledger nano so check out and register fast before

Unknown Speaker  31:31  
Mae watch a check and decrease to close maybe barely making ends meet she's never fit to print. So job working two jobs. Meanwhile, employees thinking same time saying Manny's employees great quarter

Transcribed by https://otter.ai
