Unknown Speaker  0:01  
who you are, defines how you build.

Unknown Speaker  0:07  
Alright, so, um, why why we think blockchain is, you know, the most important technology this decade, you know, Tom gave my bio, won't you know, belabor it, but basically, currently CTO of Coinbase prior to that sold the company to coin base earn part of that general partner at Andreessen Horowitz, you may be familiar with the firm on, we also sold the company for about $375 million. This is a genomics company literally came out of biotechs just you know, down the street over there with my brother and a bunch of our friends. And basically just, you know, a Stanford guy through and through. So, you know, I kind of know your your pain. So, so that's me. But enough about me, let's talk about Bitcoin and blockchain. So I like this particular image, because I think it motivates you know, this is screencap of Wireshark. And you can see the Bitcoin protocol literally as as a protocol on screen. And what's amazing about this is you can see that payments have been turned into packets, right? This is, you know, a transmission, you know, the Bitcoin block, you can see the bytes over here. And what's remarkable about this, what's absent, right, there's no HSBC, there's no Wells Fargo, right? There's no countries, there's no, you know, licenses or anything like that, right, what we have done is literally digitize the transmission of value. And if you think about how big a deal it was to digitize books, and music, and movies, and newspapers, and so on, and so forth. The the underlying technology behind blockchain allows us to digitize now, cash stocks, bonds, mortgages, loans, derivatives, and all kinds of new things, financial instruments that you haven't even maybe thought of yet. So So this is, you know, really like the motivating thing once once we've got something into the realm of computer science, well, all the folks can go to town. So there's going to be a lot of fun in the next 10 years. All right, so I'm going to give you know basically 10 things about blockchain 10 things about coin base and go through a fact and certainly answer all your all your questions. So just about Coinbase, or about blockchain, I want to review Bitcoin blockchain and aetherium, and then talk about Coinbase a little bit and do a q&a. So first, you know, just for those folks to level sex and others varying backgrounds, on I want to give the very, very, very basics. And in particular, this slide over here, is if you only remember one slide, and you don't want to remember anything else, this is the motivation behind why even invent Bitcoin in the first place? Right? So you know, with the physical cash, right? If I have $1 bill, and I hand Tom, that dollar bill, there's an implicit property of the dollar bill, which is when a hands that dollar bill to be a no longer has it, and B has it right, I had it then now Tom has an anybody who's observing that can see, you know, that that physical bill was handed over, if I tried to naively transplant that to the digital realm, okay, if I take the the Federal Reserve serial numbers on that dollar bill, and I just go and email them to Tom, okay, well, I still have a copy of the serial numbers, and I can go and email them somebody else. Okay. And that is the fundamental issue with a naive representation of digital cash, it is the double spend problem, I could have spent those serial numbers with Tom and then with somebody else and somebody else. And so simply using serial numbers alone, that's not sufficient for for basically scarcity in the digital realm. And so the way that we until the invention of Bitcoin, the way that we we represented digital cash was with a with a bank, right, like a centralized actor that we trust in the middle. And this actor over here is where the scarcity enters the system, right? When a sends money to be digitally, see is trusted to debit a and to credit B, right? So this is where the, the scarcity enters the equation. And think about this is you're putting a lot of trust in See, right, they can debit and credit anybody, they can choose not to debit or credit, they can not, you know, allow a transaction to go through an extremist size and, you know, 2008, you know, they could print billions of dollars for themselves. And so this is something which is,

Unknown Speaker  4:11  
you know, inelegant from a computer science perspective, to have a trusted central node if you can, if you can avoid it. And so what stitchy Nakamoto did is he came up with D, decentralized digital cash. And so essentially, this central actor, this, this bank, was replaced with a network of miners, and any one of those miners could approve that transaction that debit or credit between A and B. And so since any one of them could approve it, one of them disapproving it you know, all they would just do is be giving up some some Bitcoin that they would have mined, otherwise, basically, way to combine transaction approval and and SR bridge, currency printing in the same unit. So the details of this aren't super important, you know, like, technically, you know, at least for for a talk like this. But the concept is important, which is we took physical cash, we tried to naively turn it digital cash that didn't work. So we had these centralized actors in Bitcoin dispenses with no centralized actors by having anybody in theory who can connect to the internet, but sufficient computation power, cannot approve transactions and push them through. Okay. So the cool thing about Bitcoin is once people understood this, and once people understood what a breakthrough it was, they said, Oh, well, you know, this data structure that these miners are updating that blockchain that fundamental innovation behind Bitcoin, that's essentially a tamper resistant database for storing arbitrary things of value. You can use it for certain cash and you can use it shorting stocks and bonds and, and so on and so forth. But Bitcoin itself wasn't that easy to work with. It wasn't wasn't built for programming, or it was actually but Satoshi turned off a lot of the more sophisticated opcodes early on just just to keep it, you know, simple and attack proof. And so what happened was, more recently, a new blockchain was launched in 2014, called Ethereum about five years after launch of Bitcoin. And to understand the improvement that aetherium gives, here's an example of like a script in Bitcoin, which is kind of almost like assembly language, like a stack based language. And here's what you know, aetherium solidity looks like, which is a little more, you know, like, like English or JavaScript or what have you. And this programmability led to a huge new surge in crypto activity, and in 2017, of this massive Ico boom. And this went up, you know, from like, you know, on the order of 10s of billions of dollars to many hundreds of billions of dollars and then down to 100 billion dollars. But the thing about this is, you know, even though like the the Icos like came up, and they went down, you would think of it today, it's, you know, it's a winter for price, but the summer for innovation, a lot of the stuff that kind of got started back then and is starting to work, you know, for example, you know, you've got decentralized prediction markets and decentralized loans and decentralized narratives, that stuff is all starting to work, you know, the winter for price, the summer for innovation. One thing that Icos themselves, by the way is they represent, in my view, the simultaneous disruption of venture capital, swift crowdfunding and cap tables. And I'll come back to that point. But essentially, you can invest in something internationally with a group at the same time, and have all of the property rights recorded in the blockchain. So anybody can see that's like such a big deal and so many innovations at once, that people can sometimes lose the forest for the trees because they say, Oh, you know, what are you funding you're funding all this crazy stuff, but if you just look at as an innovation in crowdfunding or in VC or, or swift or cap table is actually pretty big deal. Okay, so this, this brings us to the present day. So you know, it was Bitcoin than the blockchain, then aetherium. ico boom, and now the present day, the crypto winter, you know, which for price summer for innovation, okay. So, you know, the way to think about the blockchain as the technologies improves fundamental financial primitives. And one way of thinking about this is, you know, a blockchain as I mentioned, is a database for storing things of value. And it started with cryptocurrency, which is like digital gold. And you know, more recently we've had you know, these so called ERC 20s, these these tokens, which represent like equities, but you can also use it for other stuff, right? You can use it for non fungible assets, like, you know, so called very technical sanity, like in game items, like swords and potions, you know, baseball cards, collectibles, or even eventually piece of real estate, right? You can use it for representing identity. And frankly, you can use it for representing almost anything scarce. Anything scarce you can think of you can represent in a blockchain. And you might say, Well, why use a blockchain for things that are scarce? Well, once you've got a database that represents all the money in the world, the first thing someone's going to try to do is write themselves a million dollars, right? And so you have to actually say, Well, first, I want it to be tamper resistant. Second, I don't want one party to be able to write themselves a million dollars, I want it to be decentralized, right, so that you know that the power is split, no one person can write themselves a million dollars, they might need more than a million dollars, right themselves a million dollars. And once you start thinking of those kinds of constraints, like a database of represents things of value, you start to be led to the kinds of properties that blockchains have. And once Of course, you can solve the problem of preventing someone from writing themselves a million dollars, you can stop them from breaking themselves a million potions or a million acres or a million of anything else.

Unknown Speaker  9:13  
So as I mentioned before, you know, like Bitcoin turned all this stuff into into packets, right? there literally protocols, you know, Bitcoin, aetherium, you know, these things that you can open up Wireshark and see the raw packets that update the underlying blockchains right. And so, just, it's actually completely amazing when you when you think about that, um, anybody who's on the internet can send and receive cryptocurrency back and forth, you know, just send packets back and forth. One consequence of this is, you know, there's there's another, you know, people have talked about the unbanked and it's, you know, it's an important problem that that I think crypto can solve in the in the long term. There's another group of unbanked which are which are machines. And you know, we gave machines telephone numbers in the form of IP addresses. It used to be that you had to have a human who's associate with a telephone number. When you give a machine an IP address. machine could then autonomously communicate back and forth right on. And you do that all the time, whenever you've written a bot that goes in, interacts with Twitter, or scraper, you know, like that that spider's web and connects to other, you know, computers, autonomously. Autonomous machine communication was a really big deal. And we believe that autonomous machine transaction, where machines can hold and send money on your behalf will likewise be a very, very big deal, right? Here is just a simple, you know, get up guest that, you know, string over there represents money, right? So if you can now transmit a string, you can transmit an arbitrary amount of value, which is pretty awesome. So a lot of the stuff in the late 90s, people talked about when they talk about intelligent agents, or like bidding entities and so on, that's all actually starting to happen. The primary context in which it's happening are things like, you know, exchanges, especially decentralized exchanges, you can go and write a program on your laptop that will literally make you money as you sleep by arbitrage in these decentralized exchanges. I think over time, and like the 10 2030 year timeframe, every price on the internet, every amazon.com, you know, product will have a cryptocurrency interface. So if you have some arbitrage strategy for like wool, versus, you know, fleece sweaters or whatever, you can actually arbitrage anything because everything will be priced in crypto, that's I think we're arbitrage stuff goes in the medium to long term. Okay. fourth point, you know, people talk a lot about the potential of blockchain. And I do think it has a lot of potential. But, you know, it's actually something where, you know, in some ways it's overhyped, in some ways is actually underhyped. Right? That's to say, there are fundamental financial primitives that The watch has already delivered like a 10 x improvement on and I mean, a quantifiable 10 x, right? So, you know, the easy one, the obvious one is gold, right? So Bitcoin is infinitely lighter than gold, okay, like it's faster to transport internationally, it's cheaper to custody. And to give a concrete example of this, you know, when the the German Bundesbank tried to repatriate a bunch of gold from New York, it took them years, it costs millions of dollars to bring back billions of dollars in gold. And while that might be an infrequent operation, it's an extremely important valuable operation that frankly, underpins like, you know, a big chunk of the world economy. And if you've improved on that, that's that's a big deal. Right? Gold is a $2 trillion industry, if that was the only thing that that blockchain ended up doing, that'd be that'd be a pretty big deal. But but it's more than that. Tom's going to buy some Bitcoin. So it's one that like, with the with aetherium. You know, and other kinds of cryptocurrencies that represents a 10 x improvement over Swift, right, you know, Swift, if anybody's sent a wire internationally, that takes days to clear typically, whereas with a theorem, I can be on the phone with somebody, and just like, I can wait for that email to hit, I can wait to just see it in the in the blockchain, and, you know, I can say, oh, that transaction is done, boom, I can, you know, now Now get the deal closed. And so you know, this is the speed difference here is the difference between, like a physical mail, like, you know, sending sending a letter, which takes two to three days versus an email, which takes, you know, minutes, and think about how big a difference that made, right, like, when you went from physical mail to email, just the metabolism of business changed. When you go from two to three days for international commerce, two minutes, the metabolism of international business changes, right? Third point, crowdfunding, right. So in 2015, if you go to Wikipedia, and you look at the list of the largest crowdfunders, okay, you will see that it's like, you know, maybe 10 million $15 million, by 2017 2018. A large crowdfunder was $4 billion. Right? So that's like a 400 x improvement in about two to three years. And, and that's, that's more of the 10 x that's like, you know, 400 x. Now, you might argue, well, what are those things funding, they're all funding Icos and crypto stuff, it's all this who are Bros.

Unknown Speaker  13:50  
But it's actually something where you could fund a building, right? You could fund pretty much anything. You know, now, now that folks are customized to using crypto to do this kind of thing. It's a powerful new innovation in crowdfunding. And I could go on and on and you know, probably write an article on this, but just a few more examples. So like Delaware incorporation, right? In many studies, like the World Bank has a study called doing business. And in this study, they actually say, Hey, you know, how long does it take you to incorporate in your country? Does it take you weeks or months? Or does it take you days? And if it takes you days? Well, you're you know, a great country for business, great country for startups. Well, theorems shattered that destroyed that because it's not days anymore. It's minutes, you could literally get a smart contract into the blockchain in minutes. Right. And that's amazing. That works internationally. You're not incorporating in Delaware, you're incorporating on the blockchain. And that might seem like an apples comparison today, but lots and lots of stuff. All these VC terms. All of these bits of Delaware law are currently as we speak being encoded into smart contracts. So the incorporation of the blockchain will become probably the default and like, I don't know, 10 or 15 years, and you know, there's more like the time to set up bank accounts. The time to audit you know, in 2013 people talked about you know, Bitcoin is is scam. But today, the big four when they audit a blockchain firm, they use the blockchain as the source of ground truth that they check all of your transactions against. Okay, so from a scam to the gold standard in like five years. And so the point here is retexe in all of these financial primitives, like basic, basic fundamental things and how we move money, how we think about money, and that's gonna have consequences, good consequences, hopefully relatedly not only have, you know, blockchains, TEDx lots of things, they've already created many billion dollar entities, right? So, you know, three that, that have arisen in particular, you know, the folks who founded new coins on the miners who run these gigantic server farms, in the exchanges, in each of these three groups has created and captured billions of dollars in total revenue, it's comparable, sort of to the 90s internet, when it was kind of infrastructure stage, and, you know, search engines and Akamai and, you know, AOL, and so on, were getting built out at that time. Six, now, people talk about blockchains as being trustless. And Bitcoin is about, you know, no trust, I think a much better way of thinking about it is that they give you a choice of who to trust, okay, so before you just had to trust a bank, right, you had to throw your money at a bank, you can't just go and you know, withdraw, like, you know, a million dollars from the bank, or you could but you know, you'd be in a lot of lists. And, you know, today, what you can do is you can certainly still start a bank should you so desire, you can start with you know, a company like Coinbase, or, and this is very new, you can store it on your computer, you can store it on a USB key, you can, you know, store it in the cloud, you can basically self custody an arbitrary amount of money. And that's a major innovation, because, you know, it's like, you can't carry a bunch of gold bricks around with you, you might be able to carry around suitcases full of cash, but it's a little bit conspicuous. And now you can carry an arbitrary amount of money. So that's a very new thing, you don't have to trust the bank if you don't want to. And in places like Venezuela, this is actually you know, truly a killer app. Number seven, I hinted at this before, but just just to drill into this point, one can argue that the single most important data structure in Silicon Valley is the cap table, right? namely, the very simple table that shows, you know, which people or entities own what shares of the company, right, your common stock, your series, seed A, B, etc, right? That data structure, that little table that Excel spreadsheet, maintain thing is what has lined people from every country around the globe, you know, in to build Silicon Valley, and the scale at which it's aligned them is 10s, hundreds, sometimes thousands of people pre IPO, and then you build this huge company. And then everybody, you know, hopefully does well together. But you know, the the state of the art for managing the most important data structure in Silicon Valley is an Excel spreadsheet or a Google Sheet, right? Just kind of kind of amazing. And now what we've got with the blockchain is you can 10 or 100 or 1000 X, that number of people, you know, something like, you know, bat, for example, is 54,000 addresses that hold that and you can see exactly who owns what, when, right. And this is fully programmatic. So one way I think about it is, if aligning a few hundred people, you know, at a time, don't Silicon Valley, what does aligning a few hundred thousand people at a time or a few million people a time? What can that build? So you can now align human beings and incentivize them like never before. That's, that's a really, really big deal.

Unknown Speaker  18:29  
So number eight, you know, one way to think about this is, you know, like, some of you here will be like, Oh, you know, I got to see it for too late. I miss mobile, you know, it's over. No, it's not over just beginning. So, you know, one thing we think of is like blockchain first or crypto first is like the new mobile first, it provides a weapon with which to go and attack and open many industries or areas that are either close to competition or seemingly impregnable or not even thought of as the kind of thing you could innovate on. Right. So, you know, I already mentioned, you know, international wires and precious metals and messaging, and I'll talk about the social bit in a little bit more. But there's also other areas that are that, you know, you normally wouldn't think of as things you could even innovate on, for example, like DNS, right? With crypto, you can innovate on DNS, you can innovate at the protocol level, you know, with with things like, you know, block shack or DNS or handshake where you can register domain names, these are also scarce entities, you can register them in a blockchain and you can route you know, things through them. You can have incentivized versions of Victorian incentivize versions of smtp. All these protocols, you know, that you previously thought of is kind of, you know, non monetizable or now potentially improvable and monetizable. There's also you know, Commons like Wikipedia open source projects where you can now take a fresh gloss in them and think, Okay, how can I maybe tokenize this How can I make this even better? And so, you know, this type of stuff, you know, there's there's so many different crypto first companies that are kind of swarming and attacking these differences. goals that I couldn't even enumerate all them. But this gives you some of the flavor of them. Coinbase ventures alone has made like 40 investments over the course of last year. Nice point. So blockchains break network effects, okay, and they give a completely new tool a can opener for going after skilled social networks in two sided marketplaces. One way of thinking about this is if you think about Metcalfe's law, you think about network utility, typically, you know, the larger the network, you know, the higher the value to the user. So Facebook of 2 billion people, you know, supposedly in a runaway advantage, you can't displace it, right. But there's something really interesting about crypto, which, which is that if you have a token whose value is associated with the startup, the tokens, upside is maximal when the size of the network is smallest, right? So for example, an early investor in Snapchat had more upside than somebody who invested in the series D round where it already had, you know, 10 million plus users, right. So upside is itself valuable. And now you've got a second term in the equation, which can balance out that first term, some kind of hypothetical future value that for the first time, you can programmatically issue to your users for sign up and other kinds of actions that they take within your app, right? I mean, imagine if Facebook like had something where the the folks who signed up for it the first hundred thousand, or 200,000, or million users, or end users received some slice of Facebook's equity for doing that? Well, that'd be a very big deal, you'd actually start making money by setting up all these dumb social apps, right? So so that's actually something which I think is a very powerful tool for going after scaled social networks, two sided marketplaces and things like that split some of the upside with the user 10th and relatedly. watchings, I believe are going to transform social networks. So for the last 10 years, people have been, you know, liking and poking and messaging each other, you know, wasting time, the next 10 years, you know, well, we've done making friends to start making money, right. So basically, those edges, we think, are going to now have money on them and cryptocurrency and you're gonna have new kind of social networks, where we're going to call them maybe digital economies or crypto economies, the fundamental difference being that your time is not wasted, your time of them is actually like a form of work, where you're actually remunerated for it right. And, you know, some of these, you know, maybe existing social networks might be able to retrofit. But I think you're gonna have to construct wholly new social networks that are based on these kinds of behaviors from the beginning, where earning is part of the equation.

Unknown Speaker  22:31  
So, you know, finally, just on on top of blockchain, blockchain is like a partial move away from the cloud and towards privacy. Okay, an amazing stat from earlier this year is that ledger sold its million hardware wallet, right? Now, I think of a hardware wallet. Actually, this is earlier last year, early, early 2018. I think of a hardware wallet as being a pretty arcane kind of thing, right? But when a million of them have been sold, you're probably eventually going to have a billion sold in some form or the other, right. And, you know, one possibility is hardware wallets, like like a phone charger, or bundled with a phone. So you get like three devices, you know, the, the phone, the phone charger, the hardware wallet, rather than two. There's lots of different, you know, distribution models you could imagine. But the fundamental concept is I think hardware vaults are going to become very popular. And that's a move away from the cloud and towards privacy, because the whole concept of a hardware wallet is you're not keeping your keys in the cloud, you're keeping it locally. One possible future model is something where your data is on the cloud, but it's encrypted with the private keys that you're using in your hardware wallet. And so nobody can read it other than you. And it's only decrypted and re encrypted just in time. I think things like homomorphic encryption, and so on will make that possible. So let me briefly just give 10 things about Coinbase. And I'll take some questions. All the time? I think. So, um, you can think of Coinbase itself, as like the interface between Fiat and crypto. And, you know, we have both retail and like a professional interface. And on the Fiat side, we're building like Wall Street 2.0, right, like custody and indexes and commerce. And on the crypto side, we're doing like blockchain first apps like like earn and quickness wallet. And we work closely with regulators on you know, our goal is to remain, you know, the safe, legal and trusted part of crypto. And you've got all these licenses and so on money, transmitter, license, all that stuff. And our mission is basically to create a more open financial system for the world. And you know, what that means is there's kind of two different groups of users that would benefit from that, you know, the first group are, you know, developers, investors, you know, like power users of money, who are trying to move money around in different kinds of ways do do fancy things with money. And the second group are the marginalized, you know, the folks who are unbanked, the folks who you know, do not have bank accounts. Both of these folks in different ways are pushing on the financial system to make it more open. And those are our folks. You know, what does that mean? By the way, what does a more open financial system mean? It does mean upside to sometimes means downside upside is that you can raise $35 million in 30 seconds, or disrupt remittances. The downside is there's new kinds of hacks and new kinds of scams and so on. But I do believe in the medium term, you know, will mitigate the downsides with things like like multi Sager or what have you. You know, Coinbase, we're kind of thinking of ourselves as bridging from the investment phase to the utility phase, which is to say that crypto has sort of the opposite emergence model of social media, social media piled up the users first, and then had to prove out monetization. And crypto proved that monetization first and foremost, the most literal sense, and now needs to prove out utility. Right? On, but we're seeing that happen, you know, I can go to lots of different things with earn with decentralized finance. And we think that's a big part of the next, you know, five years or so. Coinbase is actually named after where the blockchain starts. So the so called Coinbase transaction is where the new crypto is created in Bitcoin. And that's why you know, we think it's also where the blockchain starts for users, right? Just like Windows, you started using it at the start button, or Google searches where you started browsing internet, you know, log on Facebook, how you started using social media. Coinbase is where you start using crypto. Alright, so we think of ourselves as kind of like this sort of on ramp this this start button for crypto making headlines, you can read more about us online. And that's about it. I'll happy to take questions.

Unknown Speaker  26:37  
You mentioned about block chain breaking on network effects. So I'm just wondering from like the investor's perspective, do you think that would encourage more short term behaviors? because surely all the benefits that come currently from?

Unknown Speaker  26:53  
Well? Sure, absolutely. So her question is, does does this kind of model encourage short term behavior among users? And I'd say, maybe, but you know, they only really realize this value if the network is scaled. That is to say, you know, it has theoretical future value, you might be able to flip to somebody, but you're not going to get 10,000 x Unless, you know, the thing is scaled on. And so while it's true that liquidity does present some short term issues, I think on net, it does align people towards longer term things.

Unknown Speaker  27:29  
How is Coinbase handling diverging proof of stake systems?

Unknown Speaker  27:33  
So question is How is Coinbase handling the emerging proof of stake systems? So, um, we are we are closely looking at everything, I can't talk about any specific assets we're adding, we did publish a blog post in December talking about specific assets we're looking at, and that included several coins that implement proof of stake in different ways. provide a more sort of fulsome picture of the downside scenario for crypto looks like you've been generally positive your presentation isn't there's another side of it, perhaps you might reflect on what will be the cause of the death? Excellent question. So, you know, what are what are the risk scenarios? You know, what were the downside cases for crypto? I'd give a few right on. I think it's it's gotten pretty far. So as of 2019, you know, for example, crypto is sort of withstood, like the crackdown of the Chinese government in 2017. It's just enormous, you know, numbers of like, articles proclaiming Bitcoin dead and so on. And, and tons of bubbles and whatnot. Right? insofar as I think there's future risk to put them in a few buckets. First is partition tolerance. So at least right now, the Bitcoin blockchain is not built to handle extended partitions. So if, for example, the Great Firewall goes in blocks, Port 833. And then there's like a back and forth and eventually becomes difficult for the blockchain to synchronize, you know, across borders, then you could have like a peekaboo problem where the chain is extended in China by mining, but most transactions are happening the rest of the world, and synchronization is not happening fast enough. Now, there's workarounds for this, like, there's a satellite, which is pumping, you know, the watts from Bitcoin into China, because China has control over airspace, but not space space, right? There's, there's other workarounds where you could like second, graphically encode packets and bring them into China. But we'd have to actually run the experiment to see if it is possible for the Great Firewall to actually introduce it. And that firewall will have to be so tight that we have to introduce not, I'm not just a service, but any one megabyte transfer, like in all of China across billions of people, so it'd be hard but possible, so it's kind of let's call that one one approach, you know, the partition tolerance. Second is if there's some CVE, you know, you know, like really critical vulnerability that we we have not, you know, seen that allows people to counterfeit large numbers of bitcoins and you know, like break break the valley the system and by the way, the reason I keep focusing on Bitcoin here is It is sort of like the fundament of the system. If it was hacked, if there are serious security issues, I think it would setback the industry like at least five years or so like people will have to rebuild around it. With all that said, though, I think those those kinds of issues I just mentioned, are technological issues where it could set the thing back. But I think the fundamental concept of blockchains of decentralized currencies out there, and then folks will do is they'll fix that and then have a more robust version in the future. That's kind of where I'm at and open to other thoughts.

Unknown Speaker  30:29  
You talked a little about banks serving as a trusted source for record keeping, but the other main role banks have is, is a monetary policy. That's why we have Federal Reserve Banks. And so I can see how Bitcoin does the record keeping function of banks, but I am not seeing anything replacing the monetary policy function. And like, if economists have learned one thing in the last, like 200 years, is that that's really critical to an economy's well being so like, how are you envisioning Bitcoin functioning as a currency without a monetary policy?

Unknown Speaker  31:05  
Great question. So the question is, if I if I can paraphrase, you know, like, how does Bitcoin track monetary policy? How could it function as a currency that monetary policy? And so what I think is we are engaged in a grand experiment, which is what I think of as empirical macro economics, right? So I'm, basically I'm sure I'm gonna offend some macro economists in the audience. I think micro economics is pretty empirical, in the sense of, you've got the theory of the firm and venture capitalists are running lots of experiments all the time, and you have a thesis on how a company should be organized or not. And if you're wrong, you lose money. With macroeconomics, because it involves assemblages of very large numbers of people. It's hard to do like reproducible experiments, until relatively recently. So you know, I actually have these supplemental slides about every question, okay. So, blockchain is big macro knobs and experimental science, right. So virtual economies, right on our have been a topic of discussion for about 15 years, where, you know, this guy ever castronova smart guy, professor has been looking at this in the context of like, World of Warcraft and things like that. And in those kind of economies, you know, you print money, you, you know, EVE Online, you print money, you see what the effect is on prices, and so on. And it's pretty cool, where you can run experiments with the system of people who are actually trying and responding to incentives. And what I think is going to happen is that type of work is going to link up with crypto economies, and we're gonna start to get a lot of real life, you know, empirical economic data on what life is like with without a central monetary policy in this opt in kind of system. And one of the really good things about this is it's like a bonanza for econometrics people, because, you know, sort of like there's this vague concept of six degrees of separation in the late 90s. And then we got this digital data structure of the social network, right? So there's a vague concept of six degrees of separation, and then you've got something that was digital and computable. You could, you could, you know, think of it as a graph and so on. And the same way, we have this sort of vague concept of the economy. And now we've got a blockchain, which is the record of every single transaction that's ever happened down to the penny back to t equals zero, right. And so every, like economic theory that one has about like, you know, transactions or, or price support, or whatever can be tested. And importantly, one can also develop blockchains, that have inflationary policies that are that are connected to central banks, and so on. So I think what we're gonna see is just a ton of different kinds of economic experiments, some inflationary, some deflationary, some dead Mirage, some weird kinds of combinations that are resist political classification, I think we're gonna, we're gonna run the experiment, see what happens. This

Unknown Speaker  33:48  
coin base or as in Venezuela, and it was somewhat of a controversial thing. I just spend a little bit more on bases, and how it can apply to other emerging economies or distressed economies?

Unknown Speaker  34:01  
Yeah, sure. So I think you asked what a coin base do in Venezuela. And so I think we've announced this, but we basically gave away money to folks on the ground in Venezuela. You know, there's, there's a lot of theories on like, internationally, but, you know, One theory is just give the money to people directly, you know, now they've got phones, you don't need intermediaries, people are often good judges of what to do with money. And, and now you can actually, you know, via the fact that all these people have smartphones, just give them money directly, right, on. So we have this site, give crypto.org which is funded by you know, Brian, you know, where our CEO and co founder and a bunch of other folks we're trying to experiment to see, okay, can we get the money to Venezuelans? Is Bitcoin like something they can use or borrow against? Is it considered currency like in that environment? And if so, then what are the consequences? If that works, well, then maybe we can scale it up, right. So that's what we're doing here.

Unknown Speaker  35:00  
To implement on the environmental impact on currencies, so I've read that divided Bitcoin what that means physically is that somewhere in China, it was a coal

Unknown Speaker  35:16  
mining farm. That doesn't seem sustainable if you want to expand. So what's the solution? Yeah, yeah. So a couple of couple of thoughts on us. Sure. Of course, first, yeah. So what what is the environmental impact of Bitcoin? Is it something where, like, we're consuming tons of energy for it, and so on. So that's a, it's a complex issue, but let me offer a few few thoughts on that. First, is that a lot of Chinese mining is actually happening at night. And the reason is happening at night is you have, like, you know, hydroelectric plants, geothermal plans, that are basically spinning a waterwheel at night because you know, power can easily be stored in the grid, you know, like, what happens is power consumption is usually maximal at like 1212 noon, and then it kind of drops off at like 4am and then comes back up, it's got this sort of sinusoidal cycle, and at night, that power is often just wasted. But now, what's interesting is, folks are using Bitcoin mining as almost a kind of battery, where what you do rather than just throwing away that that excess power, is you mind Bitcoin? And in theory, what could happen, and you know, we're starting to see some of those is you can have markets, where, while you might be able to store power in a normal battery, you store it in the form of mine Bitcoin, and then you can have aftermarkets, where it kind of trades, and you might be able to balance a power grid better. So it may actually be something that leads to interesting innovations and like, like, like a form of energy storage. But so that's kind of one answer. The second answer is, if you think about what like Bitcoin represents, I don't think it's correct to compare it to, let's say, like PayPal, which is, you know, someone would say, well, it's so cheap, you know, PayPal, you're just missing and plussing things on a central server. I compare Bitcoin more to like a system of property rights, right? Like, more analogous to, let's say, the miners are more analogous to the police and the military, all these extremely expensive things that maintain American property rights. And so if you think about the energetic cost of that it's actually very substantial. And so this is a system of property rights, which is developed in a different way you can measure the amount of energy that goes into it. I think it's probably less than the police, the military in the banking system and other things that enforce offline property rights. But I think that's the second you know, comparable that that's interesting.

Unknown Speaker  37:39  
Certainly back

Unknown Speaker  37:41  
why there's so many, many use cases for blockchain, some of you some of you to some of them out there for banks and whatever was stopping companies to adopted a more widespread scale today, blockchain and it also like banks that as the true

Unknown Speaker  38:00  
trend in Bitcoin, so, yeah, so what's stopping companies from adopting on a widespread scale? We know what's holding blockchain back. So in some sense, you know, the industry is actually already fairly large in the sense of use How many people here held cryptocurrency? So the first killer app currency is ghost as it sounds is hold cryptocurrency as an investment and hope it goes up, right? Okay. Um, but that speculation phase was necessary. And the reason we think of it as necessary is speculation was installation. That is to say, before you have this decentralized finance environment with decentralized loans and derivatives, and so on, people have to treat those packets moving back and forth as money. So the last 10 years, what that did is you have an environment where 80% of Americans have heard of Bitcoin, everybody kind of knows it's valuable. They know, you know, a good chunk of Americans also know a theorem is valuable, and so on. And once they treat it as money, then you can actually develop apps on top of that, but you needed to have that speculative face to install it in people's heads. Now, why aren't businesses using it yet? I think what you're going to see see is it's going to radiate out from the crypto sector, that is to say, businesses within the crypto economy, you know, miners exchanges, you know, blockchain companies, new acid issuers, etc. This is actually a large enough set right now, where folks pay each other back and forth in Bitcoin and aetherium. And the folks who are on the border of the crypto economy are folks like prop traders, right? Like who are you know, just, you know, their their guys in Chicago who invest their own money or, FinTech developers? Right, you know, like square has gone into the game a bit Robin Hood's gone into the game, those are the folks on the border who are like kind of Crossing the Chasm. They weren't founded on crypto but are starting to get into it. And that environment, those folks, you know, will, they'll grow for the next like three to five years, and then it'll kind of go out one more set and so on. So I think it's gonna be a gradual process, but I think over time, you start to get more businesses involved as we build it up. Yes, Hello, can you hear me? Yes. Okay. So we have a standard journal, Rafi.

Unknown Speaker  40:00  
Which material and I think that

Unknown Speaker  40:03  
would be some good articles only like to see the governance or legal policies case that would kind of push for this kind of academic area. Great. So the question was articles on governance policy philosophy also happens. I have some supplementary slides on that. All right. So, um, so basically, here's, let me give you kind of one concept that I think is a very powerful one, right? So, um, one concept I think a lot about is that a blockchain, it's not just like a database, it's a database with a community, which is very different. It's like a database plus a social network, in some cases, plus a protocol and a compiler, right, it was actually pretty complicated, you know, interplay, so blockchains Valley dressers from its community, meaning, you know, you've got Bitcoin maximalists, you've got your theorem, developers, like a million people are at these meetups, now, you've got your XRP army, and so on, and so forth. Right. And the thing about this is just like, you know, within a country, you know, like the, the Estonians, there's the butcher, the baker, the candlestick maker, they all interact, they have the Estonian Kroon, or they used to before they had the euro. And, and then they can just, you know, use that within themselves. And that has an exchange rate with the outside world, right, that that exchange rate is their API with the outside world, they use their own currency within their own, you know, kind of country, and then the exchange rate outside and assume that once you've got a critical mass of enough people online, who just believe in something, they can just transact amongst themselves in this crypto and, and value it. And then offline, you know, you may think you're crazy for valuing XYZ coin, but you're happy to buy and sell XYZ for USD with them, maybe maybe sell. And, and so it blushes Valley draws from his community. And one of the consequences of this is, if you just take three random people, they're not economically aligned to any one of them can lose or win together, right? Or rather lose or win on their own. But if they all hold the same cryptocurrency, then they either all lose together, or they all win together. Okay, this is a way of like economically aligning human beings. This is, you know, when when VCs talk about alignment, this is the underlying data structure that, that that that underpins that. And so the thing about this is, you have this community forming behavior online, and that community forming behavior leads to these tribes. And I think over time, what it does, you know, I can talk about this, but also, over time, what it leads to is experiments and self governance, right, where, you know, once you've got a system of property rights in the blockchain, you can start doing experiments, other kinds of things. So that's type of seven things you could cover.

Unknown Speaker  42:31  
Sir, we've made a lot of cases where like, people just lose their private keys. And then there's closing based on that cannot be accessed anymore. And with a big turnover being kept.

Unknown Speaker  42:44  
Is there is this interesting thinking about the solution to actually generate more liquidity? So is just so the question is basically, you know, folks lose their bitcoins, Bitcoin numbers, Captain, how does industry think about that? Um, I think, you know, like, Bitcoin is meant to be like cash, right? If you lose $100, you can message the US government to give you another hundred dollars, is our dollar bill down the drain, right? Since Bitcoin is kind of intended to be like, in a sense, it actually benefits slightly every other Bitcoin holder because it's like, you know, renormalizing, the cap table, we lose 1% of Bitcoin, everybody else's is so much more valuable. Um, the solution for this, there's a few one of them is, you know, store your crypto with somebody else if you don't want to handle it yourself. And a lot of people do that. Right. So that's certainly an option. The second option is something that multi SIG where you have a few different folks who you don't have keys to it. And there's there's yet other kinds of, you know, sophisticated password reset social reset schemes to make it harder to just lose your crypto by accident, but it's something is being worked on by capital one. Okay. I get it. So measured earlier that blockchain is a partner move

Unknown Speaker  43:55  
away from

Unknown Speaker  43:57  
privacy. Yeah. When do you see a point where there's a tipping point? Where is the full privacy right off the bat, this this case where I think you need like, hundreds of millions or billions of people to have crypto and need homomorphic encryption, I think that's what starts to Tippett, but that's like, at least, you know, 10 years out maybe 20.

Transcribed by https://otter.ai
