Unknown Speaker  0:00  
All right, everyone. Welcome back. This is Ryan seleucus. And you're listening to saris unqualified opinions where each week I interview kryptos top builders, investors and personalities to discuss the key trends in the industry. You can discover more about masari I'm sorry.io but for now let's get right into the episode it's going to be a good one. This podcast is presented by block works group one of the top blockchain events and media production companies I've worked with for exclusive content and events that could help you with insight into the crypto and blockchain space. Check them out at block works group.io and you will not be disappointed. Or Welcome back to another episode of Miss arias unqualified opinions online sell guests at two bit idiots. I told you we got a great season coming up this year, and joined by none other than Balaji Srinivasan, who's now the editor in chief of Nakamoto, which has made quite a bit of noise. After it's a suspicious launch just a week and a half ago, on the anniversary of the launch of the Bitcoin network. Balaji I assume many people in the industry will will know and find familiar he's been a pioneer in the space. He's a serial entrepreneur, was a partner at Andreessen Horowitz was the founder of 21, which became Ern was, of course acquired by coin base, where he was most recently, the CTO. So have crossed paths multiple times with Balaji for the last six and a half years that I've been in the industry. And he's always a treat to learn from. And the thing I think that everybody's probably most interested in right now apology is what exactly is Nakamoto? And, you know, why did you decide that this is going to be the next project that you tackled, but just to maybe put a little bit more skin on the bone from my intro, you know, we'd love to hear your origin story within crypto and maybe like the two minute version of how we even got to this point. And really what's helped shape your opinions of the industry so that you know that this is the kind of next right path for you as an entrepreneur. Totally. Yeah. So thanks for that kind of intro Ryan, one thing I might just start off by saying is, you know, crypto is certainly important to me, and it might be 99% of what your audience knows about me. But, you know, prior to getting into crypto, you know, so I, like I got my PhD at Stanford, I taught, you know, statistics and CS there, founded a genomics company sold that for 375 million and also investor in like superhuman, Soylent lambda school, you know, bunch of bunch of tech startups and so on. Um, and, you know, I do tweet about that stuff, but for a reason, everyone wants to record all time, which is great, right? But I also like genomics, I like machine learning, you know, that's other other stuff. I'm, I'm into, um, on on the topic of like, you know, how I got into crypto, I think, you know, there's a few different threads, but one of them was in, you know, doing genomics I, I learned on, you know, what the state really was, you know, so as an academic, you know, the worst thing that the government can do is basically not renew your grants, right, the worst thing you can do is like, not give you money. Um, as an entrepreneur, it's quite different, you know, essentially an arbitrary decision by somebody, if you think Apple or Google is arbitrary, sometimes they're by firm decisions, you know, those at least are private companies, you can kind of get out there and appeal on, you know, the US government can be, you know, 10 x or 100. x worse. And that was something that I learned in that space. And people saw some of this where, you know, there are conflicts shooting the state, and the FDA and 23andme, and so on. But that was definitely something that was an experience where I realized how serious that was. And the other thing was, of course, financial crisis. And you know, one of the things I've been thinking about for a long time and tweeted about this was that perhaps you might want to nominate things in Gru. LDS jewels is like a fundamental currency. Because, you know, now that'd be something that even if there was inflation, you can say, Okay, how many jewels to take to assemble this iPhone? And that'd be something to compare. So think about the nature of money as well. So those are the two things in crypto, I'm sure your question about Nakamoto itself, right? Like, what are we trying to do with Nakamoto? Why are we set it up?

Unknown Speaker  4:14  
Basically, what, you know, when I'm building a Nakamoto is something well, first that I enjoy doing, which is I enjoy, you know, writing and teaching and learning about crypto. Back in 2013, I had a MOOC course through Stanford that I think was one of the first courses to teach anything about Bitcoin at scale. And we had more than 250,000 students, some of those folks actually went on to contribute to bitcoin.org, like, like little bins and so on, on and, you know, this was something which I think helped. I think it was useful on the margins, and I got busy with other things, and I didn't have the time to do education. First. Basically, my first love is both learning and kind of teaching. And so that's kind of the first reason I wanted to do something that that that I enjoy doing every day. Number two is I wanted to have a way to bridge various gaps within community. As we'll get to probably later in the conversation. I understand the rationale for crypto anarchy, but I believe in crypto civilization. Okay, it's gonna quit. It's a good quit, right? So So that's, you know, if you actually take crypto seriously and you realize how powerful it is, and you realize that it is true that the crypto will inherit the earth. Um, I think that we really want to think about what sort of society we want to build in 2030 or 2040. And, uh, you know, I think crypto anarchy is better than anarchy, for sure, because, you know, crypto provides some bandaid on that if you just look at what anarchy means in the dictionary, if it means disorder or chaos, it's all negative, pretty much right? crypto anarchy provides at least some order on top of anarchy. But I think what people actually want I mean, you don't really want a trustless society, a trustless society means when you go and buy a cup of coffee, you have to go and put a dipstick in it to see that you weren't poisoned, you know, I'm like that that's bad, right? Like, like, like people who have escaped, you know, in places in, you know, South America or, you know, what have you there's, there's kidnappings, there's, that's what a low trust society looks like, right? And, and people who've escaped, those societies don't really want that. So it is good that you can have a technology that functions with a very low amount of trust or no trust. But really what I think of is crypto isn't about or shouldn't it be about like trusting? No, and it's about giving you a choice of who to trust, because you can always exit you can move your currency out, you can opt into something. And so the question is, what do we opt into? For what is that future? We're building? Is it Mars or Mad Max? You know, and I'm interested in Mars, and I'm interested in, you know, the, the individual, I'm interested in technology, I'm interested in what, you know, what I think the true spirit of crypto is, and that's what I want to build a document or community that's focused around those values. It makes sense. And if you got off to a phenomenal start, obviously, you know, the the the guiding vision posts that you laid out was one of the more popular ones. Recently in recent memory, that was a rallying cry of sorts for why the community should should actually contribute and take seriously this new education resource. And you have a very impressive list of contributors early on some, you know, 60 of the top thinkers and tinkerers within the space. You know, it strikes me that you know, we kind of went through phases in Bitcoin where the early phase and and forum was Bitcoin talk, right? It was for the hardcore developers at first and then ultimately, some of the libertarian started to, to join and really early gold bug investors in Bitcoin. And then we

Unknown Speaker  7:52  
kind of saw the slightly more

Unknown Speaker  7:56  
open jump to Reddit Bitcoin talk was still important on Reddit, you know, is this this open community, I'd say it was kind of phase two, especially until the Bitcoin fork wars. And that's when things really started to get toxic, because it was around the same time that Ethereum launched, it was around the same time that other you know, alternative assets started to pick back up and prominence. And you saw the Bitcoin dominance go from 90%, I think, during the last bear market, and gradually eroded through the Ico boom until it fell below 50%. And that's when Twitter really took off, because you can trust the Reddit forum moderators anymore, either. So at least you know, jack and Twitter are, you know, objective and neutral in the chaos of the conversation. Nakamoto in some ways, it seems like it's, you know, full circle where you're trying to create this meritocratic discussion forum, where, you know, individuals that actually have some street cred are able to contribute. But the guiding principle has to be that there's some type of civility and you know, people aren't talking past each other and just shitposting, like you see on, you know, the social platforms that are just no moderation, right?

Unknown Speaker  9:08  
Yeah, absolutely. So how

Unknown Speaker  9:09  
do you see this, you know, working in the kind of short medium term as this gets off the ground? And then maybe there's a longer term question for how do you grow the pie and continue to make this a vibrant community versus a, what tends to happen, which is this community start up great, and then it hits a certain number, and then just, it just evolves? Great question. So actually, I've thought a lot about this. It doesn't mean they'll be successful, but at least at least I've thought about it. So a few thoughts. One is I want to actually discuss this concept of stability.

Unknown Speaker  9:44  
And the idea here is

Unknown Speaker  9:48  
there's kind of like an A, B and A C. So people will call for civility and discourse, and then fairly sophisticated radicals of many different political persuasions will argue against it. And they'll say, you know, like, like, you know, there'll be folks on the left or the libertarian, right will say, oh, civility is just a tool to control the discourse is just a way for power to censor people usefulness to shut up and, and so on and so forth. Or you're normalizing bad behavior, or you're normalizing bad behavior. Exactly. Right. And, and, and, you know, now we have a food fight where where, you know, like, whether republican or democrat or you know, with any thing on the sick burn the dis, you know, the the distortion, straw man clickbait, that is what gets attention, you know, and Twitter is metabolizing, digesting the trust that exists within society. Um, and just as an example, if you know, like, it is completely normal, it's considered totally normal for someone to go up to somebody else in a Twitter thread and just yell ftu at that, right. But, but you wouldn't go to Starbucks and do that in person. Right? Like, you would just go up to some random stranger, even if you overheard their conversation, we just go up to them and just scream at you in their face, right. And now, now, you know exactly what I'm talking about. Because I know, I know, a few people within crypto, they might do that at a conference, but maybe not to a random stranger. Right? So so the, the thing that I realized is, Twitter is not real life, but it will be. So this is the thing that's concerning to me. So if we break that down, then I'll come back to like how we plan to deal with the Nakamoto first problem and then possible solution. The problem I think, is in non trivial part one of incentives. On Twitter, if you start a fight that gains you followers that gains you likes, and that gives you potential on by, but if and that's monetizable, right? In the real world, if you start a fight that gives you police attention, which is often not valid, right? However, we're starting to see with this new wave of social apps, tick tock and so on, is just to give you a sense of escalating severity. There's a guy who's standing on the edge of a ravine and running back and forth for likes, there's another guy who's dangerously driving on the highway, like swerving underneath the tanker trailer, he's like, I risked a lot for this, please like this. And in extremists, you have folks like these shooters, who literally go and post their video on 4chan for people to give them a thumbs up. Because, you know, humans are social animals. And these folks have become acculturated, you know, people talk about falling into the wrong peer group. That's what that is, right? You know, you get, you know, like, likes for going and shooting somebody up or, you know, dangerously driving them highly engaged in a lot of lives, right. Um, another example of that, with some of the riots that happened in Portland, I think we're gonna see a lot more unfortunately, of that, where these online incentives, basically, radicalize people, and they do crazy things in the real world, for the reinforcement of their peer group. So I think we're gonna see actually a lot more than this, you know, that's an edge case of stuff that I mentioned right now, I think we're seeing a lot more of this portion in 2020s. So it's in moments like that, that you're like, Okay, I'm an everything I said, we've got proof points, everything I just mentioned in a rearview mirror, unfortunately, we're gonna see more. So, you know, at that point, you're like, Okay, actually, maybe there is something disability, just to give you an example, um, you know, your, your body does an immense amount of work with, you know, properties called, for example, feedback inhibition, where, or the maintenance of blood sugar levels, or keeping a parameter, your blood sugar within a certain range, it should not be too high or too low. either side is very bad for you. Right, so in certain systems, moderation is an absolute, it's an essential, you know, like, like, often people will, you know, derive centrism as being simply an interpolation of things, it's not pure enough, and so on. It's actually a situational thing. Sometimes, if you're too extreme, you will die. And and so, you know, just,

Unknown Speaker  13:56  
yeah, I mean, you could argue that this is kind of baked into most social platforms now, right, there's always the potential that you could have, you know, bought armies that are uploading or liking or retweeting. And that certainly has happened, but by and large, you know, moderation is baked into just about any good product, right. I think the, you know, I want to let you finish on this point, but I don't think that that was necessarily the issue with Reddit or Twitter, or, or, you know, Bitcoin talk, probably not really as relevant, because that community seems like it's more or less stayed put, and it's very narrow in its applicability. But the moderation systems exist, what you're talking about is a very different culture right there. There's no guiding culture for Twitter or Reddit or any of the other communities that have really emerged. So getting the culture right, it seemed like it was a very good first step with the launch of Nakamoto you know, massive interest, a lot of a lot of discussion telegram group, the first weekend. But I want to I want to kind of triangulate on that, in particular, because I do think that part of the culture, it sounds like you're trying to build there's a strong emphasis on healthy moderation when you strike that balance. Right? That's, that's actually right. That's absolutely right. And I'm so right. At that, how is it real question? Right. Okay, a little more on what I think is wrong with with Twitter in particular, and then what we'll do to fix it. What I think Twitter does is it results in quantifiable, uncapped virtue signaling. In any community, okay. For example, you can't evoke enough. Um, and, you know, this is something that started in academia, but now has gotten out there where folks are literally talking about how, you know, math is white supremacy, which should be a big surprise to the, you know, Arabs who invented algebra, and Indians, Chinese, and you know, math is a universal culture, like lots of people contributed to that, right, this is so broke, that they've actually like inverted and perverted whatever they think they were doing, which is tolerance. And, um, and I think that that is true within lots of other cultures, for example, you know, Christian fundamentalism, Islamic fundamentalism, communism, you know, these folks would just compete, because there's a pure status ladder, and you could never be pure enough, they've come up with some new purity test, okay. And part of that is, it's, you know, status is a zero sum game. And you if you want to be at the top of the Twitter leaderboard each day, you you know, it's it sounds fun, where you're contributing value, you're contributing words, not a scarce resource, you're contributing, and you're basically trying to outcompete others. And I think that that has, you know, come to the crypto community within, you know, maybe, obviously, the purity testing is getting more, you know, like intense in all the sub sub culture, they're not trying to call on a particular group out. And I think that's an insensitive problem. And so what's, what's the solution to that? Well, first is once and these are all tools, which, you know, I did a tweet on this actually, yesterday, when there's like, 10 tools that I want to apply. And we're gonna experiment. And I'm not saying that I've got one perfect solution or anything like that, okay. But some macro concepts. Number one is I want Nakamoto to be focused on learning and earning. Why? Because if you're just there to socialize, there's no purpose that people have, you know, there's a thing like idle hands are the devil's playground. Right. And I think there's significant less trolling, for example, on let's say, GitHub, or Google Docs, so to speak, right? Because they're kind of workplaces. Right. And interesting question is, can we get a a productive site? That also has some degree of positive socialization? You know, for the most part, like in a small companies, corporate Slack, people aren't trolling each other? You know, they are they're having productive discussions and what have you. And I'd argue that's because there's economic alignment there. Okay, so this gets me to the second question, one thing I've thought a lot about is that crypto allows us to scale cap tables, on, you know, the cap table took, you know, all these people from around the world and align them to build Facebook and Google and, you know, Dropbox, and all these amazing Silicon Valley companies, and I was just really aligning a few hundred people from, from everywhere, right? crypto allows us to build cap tables that have not 100 people, but 100,000. So one of the things I'd like to do with Nakamoto is have an admissions criteria. And this is something we're gonna you know, announce and experiment with. I'm not saying this is final, okay, but let me float it. Um, which is proof of hodl and proof.

Unknown Speaker  18:39  
All right, proof of hodl The idea is to put a cap on virtue signaling, we encourage every Nakamoto to hodl up to one. BTC now we recognize that not everybody can afford that that's like seven or $8,000 we recognize that for some people, the number might be point one BTC for some people even point one BTC or even less than that, if you're in the developing world, okay? But you do, you essentially acquire that amount of Bitcoin and you sit honestly prove via a digital signature that you hodl that amount, and there's different ways to do that. You can do it with a tight lock on, you can do that with you know, something where you keep it in the dress, and if you move it, you know, you're logged out or something, okay. But, and I might start it for example, with just, you know, the dumbest trust mechanism where I just sort of trust people to say yes, I hold this much. And I say, okay, we're gonna roll out the, you know, the challenge, you know, authentication version of it, and a few months ago when recoded right, just, I don't want to brush it out, you know, like like that might be easier or Wi Fi. So, so we do proof of hodl and the great thing about that is, once you have hodl, that certain amount, let's say it's one BTC or point one BTC or whatever it is a consensus, then no one can test you. Okay, that is no longer the dimension in which you're being tested. Your purity is no longer being tested. You paid your dues. Right? You are a dues paying member. Okay. So then but that's not sufficient, right that is that is necessary but not sufficient. The second component is proof of battle. So be ideal. And what that means is are you hold but are you a builder? Are you somebody who is a positive some person? Are you generally constructive Are you played? And one way of thinking about this, you know, there's this one liner, people will crumble it with just only give it as one letter, people will say, in engineering your your GitHub is your resume, right? So one thing I think about for Nakamoto, is if you're gonna build your resume, your Twitter is your character.

Unknown Speaker  20:32  
If I'm not saying Great, okay, let me

Unknown Speaker  20:35  
I like that. Keep going, because there's a few things that we're going to few threads that we're gonna pull on here. Good. Okay. So the thing is, I recognize also that people sometimes get in fights on Twitter, people, sometimes, you know, they succumb to the sick burn, you know, that they'll dis somebody, they'll, they'll first strike, I get that that happens from time to time. Um, but if it's a pattern of behavior, like if you're just like a, like a mean person, you know, and, and that's something which is hard to quantify. I mean, you could probably run sentiment analysis and people's tweets, but, but it's something where over over a period of time, if you've, if you've shown yourself to be a core character, if you're somebody who is driven by like, hatred, and unfortunately, there are some people who are like this, and, and, and this is not like, you know, one particular community or anything like that, you know, these people exist, and there's some crazy crazy. Um, if, if you're not a builder, and this is a broad sense, by the way, that could be an engineer, of course, but it could be a founder, it can be an investor, it could be a writer, it can be a professor, it can be it can be a plumber, it can be a tradesman, it can be a journalist, even Oh, my God. But basically, it's just somebody who has a positive attitude. And, you know, that's something where, how would we define that? I think what we do is, we have initial seed group of Nakamoto, Ian's right, like, you know, Nakamoto, and some of that Nakamoto, initial seed group of Nakamoto ins. And they would basically do proof a bit of almost like a proof of stake vote on to kind of approve, you know, like, these three people say, this person is good, let's let them in the community. Now, if they let's make the community who is later than, you know, misbehaves or is, you know, like, like banned, or what have you, then those people may lose their ability to invite for six months or a year, for example, that's a strong man for what I think of as the initial mechanism proof of hodl post provable. So let me pause there, get your thoughts on that. And I can, yeah, I mean, there's, there's a ton to unpack there. So you know, for starters, the learning earn concept. It resonates right. And for many reasons, but one of not the least of which is many people at this point, are not going to be able to buy a full Bitcoin and bright economy, right? So you have to start reengineering, how people acquire their initial crypto, which 99 times out of 100 is probably going to be Bitcoin and then it trickles down. So I buy that thesis that if you're long crypto, you're almost inevitably long Bitcoin, because if Bitcoin goes under, if it's, you know, flipping by eath, anytime in the near medium term, I don't think people realize what a disaster that would be, just from from a narrative standpoint, from a cultural and, and, and kind of mainstream investment standpoint. But what's what's, you know, maybe more interesting is the way that you're thinking about the making sure that people are bought in and and I think this is probably where some of the pushback came from, as many people objected to the use of the name Nakamoto because there were some contributors that had built iOS and Bitcoin cash and a handful of other

Unknown Speaker  23:44  
you might argue complimentary,

Unknown Speaker  23:45  
but others might argue competitive ecosystems. And if the litmus test was you only have to own one bitcoin, and you know, iOS, did a block one did a $4 billion crowd sale that they sold and then mostly sold for Bitcoin that they now holding treasure? Well, of course, of course, they own you know, plenty of Bitcoin, that doesn't necessarily mean that that the community is just kind of like wipe the slate clean and say, Oh, well, this was a worthwhile experiment, if they think that, you know, it was a scam. And I'm not singling out, you know, block one. But this I think, might apply to any token team that is part of the early conversation that let's forget about the early contributors, but part of the early conversation because it it's, it's almost impossible for them to not own a certain amount of Bitcoin, but the incentive, misalignment could still be rather extreme, where, you know, they're either pitching their own book or they don't necessarily have great intentions and some of the loudest critics might have the best of intentions, even if there are boxes in and kind of calling out and shedding light on on some of the discrepancies with contributor stories or or you know, the ethics of how they In a bootstrapper projects, in some cases, because we're talking about financial, because we're talking about financial assets, it's hard to separate the two, I guess. Right. So, like the tech angle, I understand. But but because their financial tech, and there are kind of associated tokens, how do you extricate those two things because you do need to have some type of steel man bull bear case and actually interesting debate about some of these projects that are going to be covered. But I don't know that a litmus test is necessary or even possible. So several, several thoughts. I mean, all right. So first is I think our philosophy is Bitcoin and not Bitcoin war. Mm hmm. And that's actually where I think the community is in practice, in the sense of, you know, at Coinbase, no matter what community I met with, and you've probably experienced this yourself on, you know, they may be in privacy coins, and maybe, you know, people who are competing privacy coins, big smart contract platforms, everybody knew, respected and held Bitcoin, right. But a lot of those folks, you know, recognize that Bitcoin was digital gold. And, you know, if you go back and you read, actually all of satoshis own writings, and this is the point that I'm making in this post. opening sentence, Satoshi Nakamoto, was not a troll. Satoshi Nakamoto was calm, cool, pragmatic and pro technology. He avoided confrontation, he avoided confrontation with WikiLeaks. He never yelled at anybody. I mean, the most he ever got the closest he ever got was he said, Oh, you know, if I don't have the time to respond to you, but even then he provided a link. And that was actually a discussion, a technical discussion with Dan Larimer on micro payments. You can go and look at it was actually, it sort of taken out of context, he's meant to sound more dyspeptic than he actually was in that conversation.

Unknown Speaker  26:48  
What was that comment directed at Dan? Or was it just part of?

Unknown Speaker  26:53  
Dan? I think I believe so. Yeah. Um, so so you can go back and look at that. And it was just something that's quoted out of context as if it you know, um, but but over hundreds of posts over the years, he basically never lost his temper and never lost his cool, never yelled at anybody. He also said things he was a supporter of namecoin he said, Hey, we can't put everything on the same chain. We DNS and Bitcoin it's it's beach engineering, since you have multiple chains right? Now, of course, y'all said things like that you said both, you know, you know, and I don't want to litigate this, okay. But he said, both, yeah, we should increase the block size. But he also said, Hey, we shouldn't have multiple clients. And so you can find things in his sayings, which are, like, you know, scriptures that arguably contradict each other. Now, I'm not, I'm extremely enthusiastic about, you know, treating Satoshi, like Jesus, and, and going back into his writings, like a religious figure, even though frankly, that's kind of where some folks in the community are going. Nah, I think of Satoshi as a phenomenal engineer and somebody who I respect like, I respect Newton or Maxwell, you know, these are phenomenal, you know, scientists that discovered something. But the reason that we mean the site Nakamoto was after that Satoshi. You know, the original Satoshi, who was an engineer who engaged with people who was positive, some who was neutral and pragmatic and pro tech and use try to use the best tool for the job to advance freedom, even if that meant DNS and Bitcoin. Right. And he was a pragmatist about it. Okay. Now, then getting to your point about other platforms. Well, it's interesting because lots of the you know, folks who are prominent now in crypto were some of the earliest folks who are talking to Satoshi for example, so just the other day, you know, there's a thread where Satoshi thanks Zuko in 2010 for writing one of the first blog posts on Bitcoin and has a discussion with him about how awesome it would be he didn't know how to add zero knowledge to Bitcoin nobody did at the time, but he's like, yeah, this would be pretty interesting if we could use you're an entrepreneur I'm not sure how you do that. Um, and you know, so so insofar as if you think of Bitcoin as digital gold I do think there's room for other things but I do what's right for this I don't I don't really want to argue that with people who think it's a zero sum game if you think it's a zero sum game on then you know, there's there's certain fundamental libertarian principles which are like you know, wealth creation is not zero sum you know, if if you believe it's it's something where you know there can be different niches and that one person's gain is done the surely another person loss there's there are zero sum games but I don't think I don't believe this is so what I'm what I'm trying to do Nakamoto is to create a community where everybody can win now, I'm not Kumbaya about it, I recognize it of course, there's going to be some degree of competition summer there's going to be places for fights. I'm sure that people are going to fight on Twitter and not gonna be able to stop that.

Unknown Speaker  29:54  
But we did not go to I wanted to be civil. Okay, now, you made another point which is okay, what about a large country company which has some stake in Bitcoin but has a larger stake in something else. Okay. So, um, frankly, almost anybody who has an investment in anything, that's usually true. You know, most people will have more than US dollars and they do. Most people will have, you know, they're not gonna have their full net worth and Facebook stock, even if they're a Facebook employee, or even more than 51% of it. Um, it's an unrealistic threshold to say, okay, it's a majority. Alright, so the next question is, all right, well, maybe it's not a majority, but it should be the single biggest thing that you're working on for your whole life. All right. So my response to that is, and I had a thread on this probe, etc. Um, that to say there's a thread with me Pierre Rashard, a few others a few days ago. Um, I think let's just start with the premise crypto Twitter is not a representative representative sample of all the Bitcoin holders out there, there's like millions 10s of millions of Bitcoin holders, they have voted with their capital to buy and hold this cryptocurrency. And they put in 100, or $1,000, and they went about their lives. And that's actually quite valuable and good, we should, we should support that we don't need everybody to obsess and put out 1000 tweets a day. In fact, I'm kind of unbalanced, I'd rather have somebody write $1,000 rather than 1000 tweets a day, because and this is critical, that thousand dollars that they buy in hodl, materially quantifiably, and numerically benefits the entire community, the cup holders, right, so so whatever else you can say, this person, whatever their stated preference, their expressed, you know, like, they may say something, but they're actually doing is benefiting other BTC holders. And, and the thing about this is, it's a two by two, right? Like, you know, you can find folks who are big holders who also you know, like, like talking the game, but you can also find folks or big holders who are completely silent on social media. And conversely, and interestingly, folks who are not that largest holders, but who styled themselves as as defenders of the faith or what happened, right. And, and what I'd like to do is try an alternative experiment. If you have a community, let's say we can build knocking Nakamoto into a community of 100,000 or a million BTC holders.

Unknown Speaker  32:12  
Well, that's good. Guess what, everybody now has something to talk about that they have in common. For example, you get in a taxi today. You know, people used to say, Oh, the weather or sports, those are a political, but they're, they're political. Now people, some people will talk about, you know, I'm not taking any position on this, okay, please. But they'll talk about climate change, or they'll talk about kneeling, right? Like in sports, whether in sports or not below, right. So by having a Shibboleth by having a community where everybody is a b2c, that's something that's in common, it's a rooting interest, it's a cultural thing over time that arises, but also puts a cap on virtue signaling. Now, there's another aspect, which I didn't talk about, but let me let me, let me float it. Um, I also want to have some communities. Okay, so let's say we have 100,000 total people here. So we have 1000, people who are into zero knowledge proofs. And it might be proof of holding Bitcoin and proof of building to be part of the mean candy. But to be part of that zero knowledge subcommittee, you might need to pass an exam on zero knowledge. Right, or you're part of the Z cash subcommittee and you hold a z cash, or you're part of the, you know, an XYZ subcommittee, and you hold that on or you're like a longer term, you're part of like a physician subcommittee, and you have a medical degree, okay? And the point being that we have this common thing, right, which is everybody is a holder and everybody's a builder as reflected in kind of letters of recommendation from other people. But then there's some communities that build off of it. So it's literally Bitcoin and not Bitcoin, or we're trying to build crypto civilization rather than urbanity. Okay, let me pause here. Get your theory. It sounds great, right? Because it's day one. And, you know, aside from some, you know, mean tweets and you know, some some folks that were trying to hijack the chat over the over the weekend, you know, telegram group grew from zero to what 7000 or Twitter went to 7000 10,000 now, but yeah, read between the between the between the two, it's, it's, it's, you know, over 10,000 Yep. You know, it's it's easy to launch the way that that you did in terms of getting the contributor base lined up and having you know, people that you've known that you've done business with kind of rally around this and say yes, we're sick of you know, all the distractions of Twitter. But what what hasn't proven out yet and I'm curious when it really comes into play, because today it's just you know, very high quality articles that are getting posted. But if that's it, then that just becomes propaganda right there. There's no steel man case against or there's no check against claims that are being made in this you know, education resource that is very much a pro growth Pro, you know, crypto community and as soon as you start to go into the Christian peaks are the, you know, not even critiques just, I would just say if you had like a prospectus for each crypto asset, you could get the business description and risk factor just by taking like the big holders and all the people that would shut on crypto Twitter. And you'd have all of like the the pros and cons for the investment case for these things. That their signal and some of that noise it's on on Twitter, but how do you replicate and at least make this same so that it's not all one direction or the other? Because I'd argue it might even be a little bit more dangerous for people to go in, without eyes wide open about some of the risks, again, because these are financial assets, not just underlying communications technologies like the internet. So my short answer is, I want to outsource that to masari, which is doing a phenomenal job.

Unknown Speaker  35:50  
That was that was not planned, but sharp, fine, but sorry.io do go go to bed? Um, my longer answer is, we're not an investment community. We don't offer a buy XYZ button, we don't plan to do that. We're not making investment recommendations. I probably like if we ever run, I shouldn't say never ever, but if we ever run anything on like technical analysis will be focused on stochastic processes Brownian motions, you know, our calculations will be focused on the math of it, as opposed to like, you know, the orange face of them with good orange coin go up. Yeah, exactly. Or because the face of the moon like, and these bollinger bands, you should buy this at this time, you know, like, that's fine. You know, people make their stuff on that. I know, I have no interest in that, you know, so I want to keep, um, I want to keep price talk out of there. I want to keep buying and selling crypto out of there, I want to focus on learning and earning. And, and that's different actually. Right. Like, it's the difference between speculating in a foreign exchange market versus, you know, an honest day's work for an honest day's pay or academia. You know, it's just a different culture. And, you know, in terms of critique, like, I would welcome for example, technical critiques of things that are phrased constructively, for example, here are five technical considerations that XYZ is proof of stake will have to, you know, consider or on this is a security hole that we reported and fixed with this smart contract. And here's our post mortem, right? That type of stuff, constructive criticism, hundred percent would love to love to do that. Um, but we're not trying to get folks educated about investment, I intentionally want to push that out. And one of the thinking about that is the difference between eath research versus eath. trader, if you're familiar with those two communities, yes. Mm hmm. Right. So maybe that answers your question, or I can go further? No, I think that's helpful. And maybe what let's take a step back from just knock them out. I think most people would have been in the industry for a while is, in particular, the people are kind of in the day to day. Chaos. You know, I started as an internet troll, right? That's how I got into the industry. Industry, because I was on Amazon, I could just talk shit, and that's how I learned but but for most people, it's a massive distraction. You know, I just, I can I can brush most of it off, because I've been around another scar tissue. But Yep, it is. It is intimidating, to kind of come into the information fold and, and just have all this thrown at you. So I think they're, you know, that it's obvious that there's value and that a community like this should exist. And most of the, you know, the builders in the industry would like to see something like this success that isn't focused on clickbait, or the negative, but a little bit more silver, almost like a replica of what you expect to have in person, if you could meet

Unknown Speaker  38:47  
Yeah.

Unknown Speaker  38:48  
You know, on a conference circuit, which is basically I think, why people travel the world and go to all these same conferences, because it's just, you know, one continuous conversation that's not really been filled. In the virtual world. It's just, you know, you have to go from meatspace to meatspace. To your point also, on, you know, you're probably aware of this, you know, maybe some listeners are, but crypto Twitter is way more civil and interesting in person. And there's folks who are fundamentalists online who are actually very much not so in person. Yes, yeah. Everybody's their worst self on Twitter, I guess. Yeah. Although, although I might have the record for this because I've met so many people online or in person, let's say you're not so bad in person, which is I think part of the So first, the tutors incentives, get you more likes and tweets for more exclamation marks and more yelling. That's that's a big part of it. The other thing is, I think Twitter and Social Media turns people into actors. They're playing a caricature of themselves. It's like method acting, where they're just never out of character, right? Like their audience expects a certain tone from them and they reinforces that and in the same way that you know you go to Chipotle And you expect a certain flavor. And if that flavors change on you, you're like, Huh, I didn't come here for this, right? And the audience will give you negative feedback. And so you become a more and more like, you know, concentrated version of whatever this caricature is. Um, but go ahead, you're saying? Well, I'd love to know how you view the crypto information landscape period right now, right? Because I think this helps on the community element. But you know, what? There's, there's been a significant level up on the data side, on the research side, there's obviously dozens of sub communities now, for all the different protocols. Where do you see Nakamoto continuing to grow, and kind of fill this community niche? And what would be some of the first third party integrations that you would you would hope to do? Because you mentioned having some other crypto native features to this over time? Absolutely. So first, let me say what it's not right. So it's not a competitor to like the block or coin desk, which is breaking news on we're not doing the kinds of, you know, dashboards and data analysis that, you know, you guys are doing at masari, or that coin market cap is doing. I mean, we may publish like interactive widgets, and so on, but not price focus type stuff for investment sessions. Obviously, we're not building an exchange like Coinbase, or cracking or by Nance or what have you. And we're also trying to not be the food fight of crypto Twitter and Reddit and, okay, so that's all the things we're not what are we on? We're, we're basically a positive some community, for folks to ask dumb questions. And you know, for example, one, I mean, that's just one way of doing but to ask them questions, to get smart to learn and to earn. So that's, that's the whole I think we fill in, you know, Ryan, I can't show you all of these VMs and signals that I got, but like my resolve to build something like that, I probably got 200, something like that dm signals and telegrams, etc, for people saying, Thank you, I'm so tired of having to, like slug it out, including, interestingly, some people who have a persona that's actually very different than than this okay. Which is interesting, right? Like, it actually got. Yeah, I mean, you at some point, you want to have a sober source that you can read, right? Even if you're going to carry on on on Twitter,

Unknown Speaker  42:20  
right is, it is exactly honestly, like, you know, somebody raised in a Christian fundamentalist sect or what have you. And again, I've got nothing against Christianity, I'm not trying to diss Christianity, or what have you, okay, neutral on it, but but somebody like raising a fundamentalist sect, and who has to repeat certain kinds of things, but would also like an environment where they can find out about molecular phylogenetics and learn about evolution, and maybe this thing is something interesting and important, you know, um, and I suppose that's actually related to another point, which is, over time, what I'd like to do at Nakamoto are build crypto native features. Let me give you some examples. So one big one would be pseudonymity. Okay, so if you if you're a beginner, or you have some reputation, which is at variance with, you know, like, you're you're curious about zero knowledge, okay. But you don't want to be called out for that. Because Oh, you're showing interest in a coin that your tribe doesn't like or whatever, right. Capulets, and Montag, so to speak, okay, um, you know, so so you put on a pseudonym, and you come in, and you discuss it and you learn. And or you're, you're somebody who, you're a professor, and you think you should be expert in compilers, for example, but you're not totally clear with this opcode thing is on but you also don't want to, like reveal that, okay, then you boom, you come in and you come in under a pseudonym, you ask them questions you can learn, right? So that's like one crypto native future is I want to allow for students as shields not swords. Because Satoshi use pseudonymity as a shield, not a sword. That That makes sense, right? You're not attacking someone from behind the pseudonym, you're using it to sort of just just be able to ask questions without, you know, facing personal assaults. Number one, and I gave a talk on this a while back, this is economy. Number two, the kinds of things I'd like to second example of a crypto native feature. Again, this is over time, but prediction market sell bets, right? Small amounts of money, but simply to put it on the record that I think this I think that you start to build a portfolio of the things you believe or whatever, over time, and again, you can do this under a pseudonym. Um, and it's really meant more for kind of personal accountability, or what have you, like, I call this I didn't call them. Now, there's obvious, you know, retort to that, what if someone placed 1000 bets, and the only surface the one that, you know, they have one on and whatnot, and, and there's ways to deal the deck, meaning, you know, you bet on both the win and the lose outcome, and you only claim the win outcome. There's counter arguments, which are? Well, first, if you did that across 10 things, you'd have to have to have the 10 different accounts and starts to cost you real money to be able to bet on all those things. And second is that there'll be a combination of signals not just prediction markets for the point basically being that these are things people have talked about for a long time is building crypto native features and things would have started realizing It's probably not going to be done by most, most sites. And if we build up a positive community here, that's actually like the first prerequisite, then we can roll these kinds of things out as number two. And I've got more ideas on this like being able to earn crypto, of course, earning synonymously, other kinds of things. But we want to build a future that I want to live. Well, it's a it's a worthwhile project, definitely aspirational. And its focus. And I think it's going to really continue to pick up steam, particularly as you continue to roll out features and added the contributor pace, which the content has been phenomenal so far. So I definitely appreciate you coming on and sharing a little bit more info here. Where can people get involved and and sign up for early access? Well, you can just follow us@twitter.com Nakamoto or on and you can view us and Nakamoto, calm everything will be put out on the Twitter feed on and, and you can follow me at Balaji s and DM me if you have any questions Balaji Always a pleasure. Hopefully we'll run into each other in person soon or at least on Nakamoto. So thanks again. Thank you, everybody. Thank you for tuning in. Till next time, peace. It's a wrap. Thanks for listening. New episodes of unqualified opinions go live weekdays at noon Eastern time. You follow me in the meantime on twitter at too bit idiot. You want to continue the conversation and troll me. Otherwise, I'll see you next week.

Transcribed by https://otter.ai
