Unknown Speaker  0:02  
Balaji thank you for joining us at real vision.

Unknown Speaker  0:04  
Hey, thank you for having me.

Unknown Speaker  0:06  
On, we have so much to talk about today, you know, you're such an interesting person, you've led such an interesting life in so many different domains, as an angel investor, as an operating executive, and also, as an academic at Stanford, we're gonna get to all of that. But first, tell us a little bit about your background and how you came to be where you are right now.

Unknown Speaker  0:24  
So, um, you know, parents came here from India, and I grew up on Long Island, New York, you know, he say, on Long Island, not, you know, from Long Island, came out to Stanford as an undergrad, and, you know, is there for quite a while, got my vsms, PhD in electrical engineering, MSN chemical engineering. Then I taught computer science stats and bioinformatics at Stanford for a few years on my PhD work was in microbial genomics. And I also did, you know, genetic circuits, clinical genomic systems biology, basically, everything in genomics had a finger in that. And then after that, I started a genomics company with some of my colleagues from Stanford, that ended up eventually selling for $375 million dollars, a basically diagnostics company that tested for multiline diseases like sickle cell six fibrosis, Tay Sachs, you know, stuff stuff of that nature. And what I was able to do after that is, I became an angel investor. I invested in you know, as early investor in Bitcoin, Soylent, superhuman lamda school cameo, Ethereum z cash, a bunch of things that have done well, some things your audience may have heard of. I was a general partner at Andreessen Horowitz, multibillion dollar venture capital firm, where some of my portfolio companies ended up becoming the basis of our bio and then are also our crypto funds, which are now large, independent funds. I taught a MOOC course massively open online course with 250,000 students online, so very large, online course. And then most recently, I took over one of our portfolio companies at Andreessen Horowitz turned that around a messy situation which I fixed, so I had to be a turnaround CEO on turnaround solid coin base, which is an $8 billion cryptocurrency company. I was CTO of Coinbase until last year, and then I took some time off on and starting in January, basically right about when I was about to my next thing. I started paying attention to this, this Coronavirus. And he tweeted about that, and I think helped, you know, many other people raise the alarm on that, especially in Silicon Valley in the West Coast. And that brings us to the present day,

Unknown Speaker  2:39  
you were very early on Coronavirus, and many people know you now from your Twitter feed, the things that you've been tweeting your analysis and the framework that you've brought to that the sort of academic rigor in the background in in biotech kind of converging, to give us a bit of a sense of the way you think about the world.

Unknown Speaker  2:57  
It's very kind of you I basically, you know, a few filters that I was putting on it as a diagnostics person. Also as certainly as like a VC as a biotech entrepreneur, as an academic who had studied this kind of stuff for a long time. I mean, the space is very interdisciplinary, right? You know, there's nobody who's an epidemiologist and a pulmonologist on and, you know, a cardiologist and, you know, this handout, right, so, but from a bioinformatics and genomics and diagnostic standpoint, I think, at least on those angles, I think I was qualified to comment,

Unknown Speaker  3:29  
right, and there was certainly no COVID-19 experts as recently as six months ago.

Unknown Speaker  3:33  
Yeah, that's right. That's right. And I think, you know, one of the things about this, as it's so broad, everybody has to, you know, have some, you know, if you're if you're doing any kind of economic planning, you're basically going to have to be an amateur epidemiologist in the sense that you have to have your personal forecast of how bad the thing is going to be. And you simply can't just quote trust experts, because enough experts disagree with each other, that there isn't a you know, obvious consensus number one and number two is in such a high stakes situation, you probably want to do your own diligence, to some extent, so on you know, like, like, it's, it's something where I don't think anybody can possibly be an expert, everything. There's a great article that actually BMJ recently, which said, Hey, we need to create experts, not hoard expertise, not you know, pretend that there's a finite pool that because that person was at one point, just an undergrad, read a textbook and leveled up in the in the space. And you know, like that, you may be able to do that in a day, but in a month, you can actually get reasonably conversant with some of these terms. I'm not saying expert, but I am saying like conversion. And I think that's actually a valuable thing to do. Everybody's been talking about serology and IFRS and all this type of stuff. The vocabulary is filtered out there. And I think that's actually generally good, man, we can get into that.

Unknown Speaker  4:46  
Yeah. So set the stage for us a little bit where you were in January how you came to be aware of it and what your first exposure to it was?

Unknown Speaker  4:52  
Yeah, so you know, I like Twitter is a hobby of mine. Like Like it is for many people who, who enjoy Same time at Ober or whatever, you know, um, and so I was, I was basically following, you know, this virus like 20 other things you might follow in your peripheral vision, you know, it just kind of pops up on your radar. Because, you know, when you're, you know, when you're an investor or something like that this is what you do, you just, you're tracking a bunch of trends. And, you know, many of them fizzle out before they get anywhere, you know, um, but, but this one in particular, you know, what, what was obviously a huge deal was the locked into boo Han on January 23. And the thing is that, you know, the Chinese government is, is not known for committing economic harm carry, you know, it's not known for committing economic suicide, there's a lot of other things it does, that we might disagree with, and I might well agree with you in that disagreement, but it's not, it's not dumb, or self destructive in quite this way. And for to do that, that was an unshakable signal to the world that something very serious was going on that endanger the regimes legitimacy to a greater extent than potentially causing a huge economic crash could. And, and so that caught my attention. I mean, their thing is, you know, some of my friends, you know, here in tech, we were talking about this, but, um, you know, in, in Silicon Valley, and in technology, you're dealing with folks, Chinese entrepreneurs, who are very competent, and often, frankly, will defeat you, certainly in China, and often, you know, abroad, because they just execute really, really fast, and they work very hard, and they're smart, and they can clone your stuff really fast. But now, they've also been able to innovate. And, and so we have a healthy respect for them as peer competitors. And folks who we have to give it are a game with. I mean, it's possible to win. You know, I think, for example, Facebook and Google have have done well against, you know, Tencent and Alibaba internationally, it's possible to win, they're not unbeatable, but you have to give your game or your A plus game. And when we saw that China was having trouble with this, not just trouble, but like, overturning society to control it, that made us very concerned, because, you know, we don't have the model of them being, you know, a third world country that, you know, this is a very sophisticated, very technologically advanced country that's ahead of the United States and the rest of the world in many ways, especially things like WeChat, or what have you, for them to struggle with this really had to pay attention. So that was a big trigger. And then I started digging into literature.

Unknown Speaker  7:37  
Yeah, that's such an interesting frame, the notion that the Chinese were certainly not about to shut down a city in a streaky industrial area if they did not absolutely have to. So when you begin to see that, at what point did you begin to understand the biology of it, and what was happening in terms of the actual disease itself?

Unknown Speaker  7:56  
Well, so the first thing I did when after I saw what was going on there is I went to PubMed, and I went to any GM, New England Journal of Medicine and Lancet, and just started reading every article I could on it. This is I mean, now this space is gigantic, there's thousands and thousands and thousands of papers, it's actually awesome. From a research standpoint, in that sense, you can't keep up on all of it, there's actually a good site, like, I think it's COVID-19 primer calm, that is, like a, like an automated natural language processing review of the whole thing. So you kind of keep English research that way. So you don't have to hand filter it. Um, but I went to the New England Journal of Medicine and Lancet, and read the early case studies, you know, on the patient zeros and so on. And some of the stuff is was very concerning, you know, like the the first study of somebody who had got in the Coronavirus in the US, healthy 35 year old who was knocked to the ground in, you know, Washington State. And basically, it was going to die until he was put on remdesivir. intravenous, and then he suddenly bounced back by that prescription on, it was, you know, to the best of my knowledge of what I can reconstruct from public sources. And I'm open to correction on this, but appears to have been done via right to try laws, since it looks like they just work with state regulators and only notified the FDA, rather than actually going through the FDA. And that's a very big deal, because it means that maybe the first case in the US was treated with right to try laws, as opposed to going through a traditional pathway. That's a theme, we can come back to what I call the decentralized response, as opposed to the centralized response and bottleneck it through the federal government, for example.

Unknown Speaker  9:32  
Yeah, I think it's so interesting to have you talk about this because you bring what I think of is kind of a West Coast perspective to this a West Coast thinking a framework where the central that the centralized authorities are not the ones who are controlling solutions. It's very entrepreneurial and experimental, which is really an interesting view.

Unknown Speaker  9:47  
Yeah, I mean, I think like to linger on that for a second. I actually think we're, we're now about to actually snap to a new, like, realignment slash political alignment of the US that the north south divide is, I think, Much less relevant. And what actually matters is kind of, you know, broadly East Coast versus West Coast, centralized versus decentralized, modern monetary theory versus Bitcoin on the state versus in network politics versus technology. And, you know, I think I think that is, you know, really where things are going to shape up. And, you know, that's kind of the emerging axis. And what's interesting is, I've sort of put myself, you know, in some ways, dead center on that, even though I'm a West Coast person, because right now, I think the emerging political axis in the US and probably the world is not traditional left, right. But antivirus versus pro market. And you know what I mean, by that, maybe that's obvious. But let me just drill into that for a second. antivirus means the total state, the unlimited government, because you're talking about a government that's, you know, able to put you under house arrest for doing nothing wrong, not just you, but an entire town, entire city, right, was unprecedented in China on January 23, is now common practice in the West, right? Hundreds of millions of people under so called lockdown. So, okay, house arrest for anybody, you know, no, no due process, and I am saying that these extraordinary measures may actually hold back the virus, but they will not be given up by governments at the end, you know, the first lockdown, maybe, you know, to protect you from the virus, and the end flocked and maybe to protect you from each other. Especially if, like, you know, a huge chunk of people are out of work their civil unrest or something like that. That's, you know, I can't say it's 100% probability, but there's, there's some percentage probability of that. So you have, you know, the total state, you have lockdowns, you have price controls, you have border controls, you have, you know, the ability to tell people that they need to get tested, for example, in China, you know, that you have to have four thermometers and all these scans. So like repeals effectively on search and seizure. So lots and lots of due process goes out the window, because you're basically in a wartime situation against a virus. I think, you know, people have been talking about this, is this a recession? Is this a depression, and I think those are fundamentally bad metaphors for what this is, this is the first successful invasion of the United States of America, in modern times by a virus, and a really by anything, but really, an invasion is probably the best metaphor because 10s of thousands of people are being killed, you know, millions are being sickened. You know, like actual physical production is being shut down in voluntarily not due to fully for economic reasons, but to physical reasons, people are getting sick and dying and leaving their posts or getting sick enough that for example, meatpacking plants been shut down. So on the one end is this total state, and on the other end is the kind of the the market. And, you know, that's where the kind of anti lockdown protests and a lot of that sentiment comes from very understandably, you've got 25 million people out of work. And so this is a reaction to price controls, to seizures of masks, to bail outs to all of this type of stuff. And that's kind of the libertarian ish end of the spectrum, the freedom and the privacy and the, you know, don't tread on me and etc. And that's kind of the axis I think that's, that's there, not just in the US, but the whole world. And I think that's kind of dead center of where East versus West Coast is.

Unknown Speaker  13:22  
And where do you see yourself on that continuum, as you look at this problem,

Unknown Speaker  13:25  
my preferred strategy. So you know, it's interesting, a lot of people are, are thinking about this as a trade off between, you know, like, how many cases you get with the virus and how long your lockdown is on and, you know, the the implication being that you'd get fewer cases for the virus longer your lockdown or vice versa, that economic damage and viral damage were, were inversely correlate with each other. But I actually don't think that's the case. I think that when all of a sudden done on the countries that have the short, sharp, competent lockdowns will have much less economic, less economic damage and less viral damage. So New Zealand or, you know, like actually, China, I think on net is gonna turn out to to have a relatively better outcome than many other countries. You know, potentially, you know, certainly Taiwan, South Korea, etc. Even these Asian countries that are having second waves are jumping on top of it very aggressively. And I think that model of, you know, aggressively jump on this thing. Don't just let it get to 100% on, you know, drive new cases to zero and then gradually open up with testing, tracing, isolating, such that, you know, you don't just like let a case happen until you've got a cure or vaccine, then you deploy that. That's in New Zealand strategy that seems to be to be a smart strategy. The opposite of that is just kind of, you know, what I call let it rip. And you know, my my my friend from Twitter, you know, john Stokes calls it, the great YOLO. And, you know, that's kind of what we're what we're defaulting into, which is this sort of disorganized thing where we kind of do a halfway lockdown. People, people understandably yell, I don't make light of them yelling, they're losing jobs and livelihoods. But then what they're gonna find, I think is they come back and have half the businesses and they're already because people will social distance even without a lockdown. And and then more business will disappear, because people will get sick, and then they'll stay home at home. And now you've got kind of both the virus and the economic destruction and kind of worship both worlds. Unfortunately, I think that's where countries in the West, many of them are headed,

Unknown Speaker  15:42  
right, you know, and to pick up on that. Where do you think we are? Now we're recording here at the end of April? Where do you think we are in terms of the state of play with this virus right now in the United States and globally?

Unknown Speaker  15:52  
Well, so there's a really good site called COVID. So there's two sites that I look at, right? The first is COVID, tracking COMM And all the sites that use that data and contract netcom is looking at tests, on cases, deaths, etc. And it's a really good project by Alexis Madrigal and company. And basically, you know, they were just finding that the CDC wasn't able to track test. So they went into it themselves, massive props to them. And that site is, you know, updated very frequently, very labor intensive effort. And it's pulled by a bunch of other folks. And if you go to a website called COVID, charts calm, basically, you have to wait till the end of the day, but the new cases per day and new deaths are to looking at, you know, April 27, it does look like it's down, at least as of you know, this, this morning, or whatever. But, um, you know, you have to wait a few days to see that, in general, it doesn't look like we have massively decelerated yet. You know, it doesn't, it doesn't seem like the deaths or case have come down. People are like, Oh, it happened in New York City and so on. Well, actually, it's just, you know, it happened in New York City, and it came down in New York City, but then it's, it's in 49. Other places, right. You know, for no other states. So I think we're just at the beginning of this thing, unfortunately. And I think that people who think, oh, the pandemic is over, oh, it only happened in New York City, it's, it's going to come to their town, potentially.

Unknown Speaker  17:20  
And I don't think about the about the trajectory of the virus right now in the United States, just from a disease impact standpoint.

Unknown Speaker  17:27  
Yeah, so So one thing that um, so a few things, I think are clear. And let me let me at least give you my worldview on it, because there's some very big variation in people's thinking on this. First is I'm, I'm pretty skeptical of the serology work that came out of Stanford and USC and others wrote a long medium post critiquing it, and so did a bunch of other people. Because I think the false positive rates of those assays are very high. Why is that important? There's basically be in this thesis, that, oh, a bunch of people have already gotten it, because they've already gotten, it's already spread a lot. That means we're close to the end, we're already at 20%, or whatever, you know, 30%, just a little bit more enrollments done to this. And the reason I think that's unlikely is it would mean that this virus is way more contagious, and other pandemics, you know, like h1, and one Spanish Flu took, you know, more than a year to get around the world, h1, no one was in the age of modern jet travel. And so this would have to be spreading really fast. I think that's unlikely. And I also think that those kinds of calculations don't really contend with the second major metric that I think is important, which is this guy. His name is john, this, john burns something from the planet, john burns Murdoch, from the Financial Times. Jay, burn Murdoch, you are an prns. So that guy has a very useful set of graphs. That is something I've been talking about since March or April, and they went took that next level. And they've created graphs of the spike in history, death rate over the historical average. So the spike in all cause mortality, okay, across a dozen countries. And the thing is that, you know, I start from the premise that this is the best test. Unfortunately, COVID-19 has now gotten to the scale, that it is a very significant cause of death in more than a dozen countries around the world. Actually, way more than a dozen but at least a dozen for which we have good data. And because it is at that scale, that means that you can compare it to past years, and you can see how many excess deaths there are. And the reason that's important is death is is built from it from a diagnostic standpoint. I don't mean this in a callous way. But, um, you know, death has high test retest reliability. It can be diagnosed outside a lab. You don't really have false positives and so on and so forth. Right. So lots of the issues that bedevil other kinds of diagnostic tests are not there with death, right. And it's also something where you have probably the best records that you might have, you know, if you if you talk about somebody having pneumonia, right, the diagnosis of pneumonia will probably differ from country to country in terms of how much, you know, like, like, what what a doctor would call pneumonia, but death doesn't differ from country to country. So it's the most consistent across space and time, it's easier to diagnose. So it's really the best stat, unfortunately. And those stats are showing just a pile of advice. You know, there's a huge surge of mortality in not just Italy, but Spain and and a bunch of other countries, including, you know, New York City on and jaybird. Marduk. Has that. So that's the second set of charts that I look at the old college mortality charts, this was something that came into

Unknown Speaker  20:50  
sort of the broader consciousness, I think yesterday, we're effectively there were some articles saying that all cores cause mortality, seemed to suggest that the death rate from COVID was twice as high, as was being reported from other diagnostic criteria, which is obviously an enormous gap.

Unknown Speaker  21:08  
Well, so yeah, so I was just saying, though, that not definitely not to the my own chest. But cuz this is, you know, but if, if you look at my Twitter, we've been talking about this since March on and pulling up analyses that are kind of on, you know, so there's a guy delana leuco, who's doing these analysis in Italy, there's another guy, David wsca, so kind of tech, Twitter, or whatever has been kind of digging into this for a while now. And so we had already kind of had the numbers to show that spike and all cause mortality, like a month ago, but great credit to john Byrne Murdock, because he's taking it next level and actually going to pull it for even more countries and gun, the government stats, you know, in a bunch of different places to kind of solidify the analysis, you know, so let's call that, you know, basically just anchoring the severity of disease. Now, who is it severe for? Short answer is, it's very severe for a old people, and B, meaning like, you know, 65 plus in particular. But as you get older, just risk increases, and B people with pre existing conditions, okay. But the second bit is, should not be that reassuring, especially to Americans, because they have a pretty high rate of obesity and heart disease, and, you know, so on and so forth. It's a it's an amazing, like number, unfortunately, of Americans who have one or more of those of those comorbidities. So people who are like, Oh, you know, like, that's not me, and they're 53 and overweight? Well, they're kind of in a relatively higher risk category. And you can look at the stats on it differs from say, to study, but the CDC had some numbers on this. And they did that a whole demographic workup. Their thing, though, is that it's not that people are immune when they're younger. Um, you know, something like, if I recall correctly, 25% of hospitalizations, were for those under 50. So 75%, were over 50. But 25%, were under 50. And that's not that's not zero percent, you know. And so there's, you know, like, some of the stats ownerships I've seen is something like 13% hospitalization rate for people 18 to 44. And I know people who've had been very sick from it just kind of qualitative evidence to buttress that, you know. And, you know, by the way, on the topic of anecdote, by the way, people will say, well, the plural of anecdote is not data. And I would agree except, and qualitative feedback often allows you to formulate a quantitative hypothesis. And that's why it's actually super important in tech startups, just to digress for a second to talk to customers, as well as look at your dashboards because you talk to a customer and they say, Oh, I had trouble logging in, then you put up a new dashboard, see how many people have trouble logging in, you see, 1000 people had trouble logging in. So the quote, anecdote led you to collect data, right? That, right, so so we should never, like discount the value of a patient study, that's actually really, really important because it lets us maybe look at things from an angle we weren't considering and then collect data to see if that observation is real. So point basically being a, I think it's quite severe, be it severe in the elderly, and people with pre existing conditions. See, that doesn't mean the younger people have clean ceiling of it. And D, something else I'm concerned about is folks who were so called asymptomatic, many of them appear to be not asymptomatic, but pre symptomatic, meaning that, you know, you do follow up on them, and suddenly you're seeing CT scan of their lungs is actually showing evidence of viral damage. And now, you know, they start coughing or they have other kinds of symptoms. And so for at least some people the virus is like a slow burn, which is bad, right, because kind of hiding you know, and so, you know, there's there's other things where you know, that the sheer number of different kinds of symptoms the thing that's causing in folks, we're still kind of getting the table as people are reporting strokes. They're reporting a weird lesions and the toes. You know whether this is due to soon Just the scale of it causing lots of rare cases, whether it is due to, you know, it actually like mutating, and there being different strains during different things that some people have speculated on, we don't really know yet. But I would just I just treat this thing as being fairly severe and not something you want to mess with. And so I think the strategy of like a Singapore or New Zealand is probably right. Okay, I know there's a long answer. But go ahead. I'm so

Unknown Speaker  25:22  
you know, I'm so glad you brought that up, there's, you know, the two sort of things that I was wrecking trying to reconcile from yesterday was the report of the, you know, double all cause mortality based on some of the analyses that we were just discussing. And the second point was, there was a study coming out of the state of Ohio, I believe, about testing prisoners showing that 96% of the prisoners they tested were, in fact asymptomatic. And trying to reconcile those two propositions, on the one hand, something that would suggest the disease is much worse on the surface than it appears. And then the second, right, suggesting the opposite. And it is a very complex problem to get our heads around.

Unknown Speaker  25:56  
Yeah, and I think, you know, my, my, my speculation is that those asymptomatic prisoners, many of them will develop symptoms. You know, I tweeted this a little while ago, but in a follow up study of very different kinds of follow up studies of asymptomatic, like, 27% 54%, in different studies develop symptoms, at some point. Yeah, I think that's what's gonna happen with those prisoners, that they're not gonna remain asymptomatic indefinitely.

Unknown Speaker  26:22  
Not all but but many of them. So one of the things that you talked about on Twitter is the viral funnel. Can you explain that a bit?

Unknown Speaker  26:27  
Yeah. So, you know, I tweet about this in March. But basically, there's lots of different efforts, you know, flying around, and where do you want to help. So, you know, ideally, where it saves the most lives, given your skills. So, um, you know, the funnel model comes from like startups, right, you know, you've got a bunch of leads at the top of the funnel, these are people who might, you know, be out there, and then some of them click and land on your website, and some of them click a little bit more, and they end up in a cart, and then send them all the way convert and, and, you know, so on, right, and they maybe they renew subscription, or they churn and might seem like trivial startup lingo, but you can apply the same thing to the virus, right, you've got this, you know, group of healthy people out there, then they're exposed, then some of them get infected, some, some get sick, some of them actually die or recover. that's similar to like the cir models, you know, epidemiological models, and so on. And so you can think of interventions at different portions of the viral funnel, for example, like, you know, for Healthy People, masks, social distancing, lockdown vaccines, tests, those kind of, you know, are things you can do on healthy people on, you know, when you talk about if someone's exposed, you do more tests, you do CT scan, you do, you know, not just PCR, but you might do you know, sequencing or whatever, if you think they're being exposed to, you know, a strain that you want to know about. If they're infected, then you'd actually isolate them you need, you know, you need to hospital beds or some kind of quarantine, you know, area, you're going to potentially need drugs. If they're really sick, then hospitalization PP for MDS and nurses. And if they're recovered, maybe serology tests. And so now once you kind of have that funnel, when you say, Okay, I'm doing PV, okay, you're actually like stage four of the funnel, right? Because you're helping sick people. Because you're giving PP at MDC nurses. Oh, but maybe you might help at the top of the funnel as well, because some of those masks could go to people who are healthy. So in this fashion, you can kind of think about where you want to allocate resources. And really, the best thing you could do is stop healthy people from getting sick in the first place. So that's why I for you know, last few weeks of March and early April, I was helping out, Jeremy P. Howard, who launched masks for all was very effective in basically shifting policy on this, where the Surgeon General was at first saying, Oh, you know, people shouldn't wear masks, and then literally recorded himself making a video of wearing a mask, which is good. I'm glad. I'm glad they turned around on this. Right. But essentially, that common sense intervention is something that I think we think will significantly reduce the spread of the disease. So that's the idea of the viral funnel is to prioritize different things, interventions based on the impact on the phone.

Unknown Speaker  29:07  
You know, I mean, the frightening thing about hearing you discuss that as it sounds as though that sort of thinking hasn't broadly taken place at scale. Yeah, it sounds as though the basic sort of staging and framework of this is still at the position where it's a novel idea.

Unknown Speaker  29:20  
Yeah, so you know, the thing that has been concerning to me about this, this whole way, is this whole thing is rear wheel drive, where, you know, the folks would scientific, technical, mathematical, you know, management backgrounds are not in politics, and they're generally not in the media either, at least as writers. And, you know, so what that means is the folks who are talking about what to do and the folks who are responsible for making the decisions are just not there's there's a critical mass of folks, you know, who know what a virus is, for example, right? And and so like, you know, you just have you. I mean, it's not it's not a partisan thing, by the way. It's the federal bureaucracy is the Marin New York and the White House. It is the FDA and the CDC is, you know, like both, you know, all major media outlets have had just the flu type stuff. And, and not just just the flu, but you know, masks don't work. And then masks work. Just faceplant after faceplant on this. So, so I think, yeah, I'm, I'm pretty concerned about the fact that folks who I think of as competent, are outside of the loop on making decisions on this, or are doing kind of rear wheel drive, right, you're tweeting frantically to try to get the attention of somebody, as opposed to just being in the position to make decision yourself.

Unknown Speaker  30:47  
You know, another suggestion that's getting a fair amount of traction, is this notion of immunity passports, this is something that's broken out into the mainstream media at this point, could you explain that concept and tell us where we are with regard to being able to actually execute on that?

Unknown Speaker  31:00  
Yeah, so so that's something, you know, basically, immunity passports or proof of health, that could help reopen the world, whether it's based on serology testing, which is, hey, do you have antibodies like immunity in that sense, or some other kind of tests, essentially, you know, for example, in Asia, people have forehead thermometers, and they stand outside of buildings, and they kind of scan people as they walk by. And that's not a perfect test. Because people can be asymptomatic and still pass and so on. But it gives you some signal. And so you can start think about defense in depth, right? You have, for example, wearables, like your Fitbit, your era, their studies going into whether that gives you signal, there's your forehead thermometers, there certainly your self report, there is a digital diagnosis of whether you're close to somebody else, you know, contact tracing, where you close to another positive, can we send you a signal on that basis, which, you know, smartphone manufacturers can do now, I know it's Orwellian, but they can, you know, another test is these kind of thermal scans from afar. There's, like these really high throughput CT scans that the Chinese have, where it's really fast, and they can do a bunch of them quickly. There's obviously PCR, there's, you know, sequencing. And so you start to have defense in depth, right. And something I tweeted about, I said, you know, China is going to build third grade wall, as a function of this, there's a great wall, the Great Firewall, they're building the great bio Wall of China, like a gigantic bio defense wall of testing, and other kinds of things, you know, eventually vaccines to fortify themselves in May different ways. So the virus breaks through one fortification doesn't break through another, and yet another. And so that's, I think, a good mental model. Also, for proof of health, or these immunity passports, where, you know, you have a series of tests that are done on somebody, and you know, in China that we're doing it is green code, yellow code, red code, your WeChat has, you know, either green, yellow or red, corresponding to your basic your current virus status, right. So green is your fine, yellow, you've been exposed and need to be quarantined, you can't travel between cities, and so on, and red, you're known to be infected. And so that digital status is contagious, just like, you know, the viruses. If a red walked into a crowd of 20, greens, they would all turn yellow, for example, right? At least that's my, you know, that's one's understanding of it. So that's the kind of stuff that all goes into something like this immunity passport, and, frankly, in a sense that already existed. Because, you know, you need vaccination certificates to immigrate to a country, right, the US has needed that for a long time, you know, you know, if you google vaccination certificate, so this is kind of like that, you know, of actually insert is, are you going to bring a deadly virus, you know, into our shores? That's the same reason to ask, you know, are you bringing in snails? Are you bringing in, you know, like animals and stuff like that, always ask those kinds of questions, you know, the agricultural things. So you want to know, are you bringing something that can reproduce of its own accord, and maybe get out of control of, you know, something that has no natural predators, all that type of stuff on balance ecosystems? And I think that's, that's what this is. It's like a vaccination cert. It's like, it's like one of those questions about whether you bring in animals, except it's applied to a virus. And except, and it's also done, obviously, in much more intrusive in real time

Unknown Speaker  34:12  
weigh in on the treatment side of this equation. You talked about the expanded and the right tribe. Tell us a little bit about what that is, and why it's relevant for getting the kind of treatments that we need to see.

Unknown Speaker  34:24  
Yeah, so you know, what the FDA did in February was basically catastrophic. It's now known that they prevented emergency use authorizations for tests. And in so doing, turned a containable epidemic into a catastrophe. You know, they basically what what essentially happened was labs that could have run tests that would have shown that the coronavirus epidemic was actually it was spreading. They were prevented from running tests by the FDA for critical 28 day period, and only really allowed to run on the 29th. Once the test actually started run, it was clear that we had a massive outbreak going on. Hands. And so were you know, things, things might have been nipped in the bud. Because what happened was the lack of testing gave everybody a false sense of security over the course of February, when the fire was still, you know, at a relatively early stage. So it's my point. My point is, does, you know, that's potentially the greatest failure in the history of not just the FDA, maybe the greatest, one of the greatest failures ever, in the history of, you know, the United States cost the country trillions of dollars 10s of millions of jobs, simply because, you know, bureaucrats didn't approve test fast enough. And that's just something that's perceptible to people. It's a, it's a, it's a catastrophe on such a scale that's perceptible, most of the times that something is denied for multiple sclerosis, or, or, you know, like colon cancer, it's not visible on that scale, right. It's not something where everybody has a stake in it, where, you know, like, it's, it's super, there's lots of eyes on it on it's more deniable. So what you expect the FDA, there's been pads to route around it in the past. And critically, those pads Don't say no regulation, they just say a different regulator to put some competitive pressure on this regulator. So some of them for example, compounding pharmacies are one where, you know, pharmacies, pharmacists have some discretion in order to kind of mix drugs together to get new drug, off little prescription by MDS, you can have a drug that's approved for purpose a, that a doctor in their own discretion can prescribe for purpose B, there's been a CLIA and clinical labs, where you can basically go and have individual labs that are not necessarily FDA regulated, but the regulated by a different agency, also under HHS, under CMS. So HHS is a parent, it's got FDA, and it's got CMS, under CMS is something called CLIA, and clear works with state regulators to approve clinical labs to roll out tests. And then of course, there's other countries. And so each of these are pathways that are outside of, you know, the FDA, and the FDA wants to shut them down. Usually, they've been kind of waging war against lab tests, and compounding pharmacies and so on for a while. Right to try is yet another pathway outside the FDA where basically, people have as it sounds like the right to try a drug, and they just have state regulators sent off in it. And then under some circumstances give notice to the FDA because the procedure for actually getting, you know, approval to use a drug is actually extremely bureaucratic, normally in person is dying. And so now you just give a notice the FDA rather than going through that whole rigmarole, one thing, also, by the way, a lot of the FDA stuff, where to block things, it causes failure to apply, rather than necessarily failure to get approved. And those are similar in outcome, but failure to apply is less measurable. And because it's top of the funnel, it's such a complicated and time consuming process that people don't even put in an application. And therefore it's it's harder to detect the full impact of what it is they're doing, if that makes sense. Because many of these companies and labs that were turned down for these these authorizations, ua is made out of file formal applications, they just got informal feedback that, you know, okay, they can't, they can't get one at a time. So what's, what does this have to do with expanded right to try? So right now there's all these different pathways outside the FDA for, for drugs via off label for labs via CLIA for drugs, again, via compounding pharmacies, for pretty much everything via going internationally, like medical tourism, and expanded rights to try would basically just expand all of this. And one model would be something where these, you know, these, like, for example, this western states compact, right, California, Oregon, Washington, and I'll also Colorado, Nevada have joined this, okay. So as western states compact now could basically say, look, we're going to have Stanford, UW Berkeley, UCSF, and cedar Sinai, which are all very legit, you know, basically on the west coast, right? maybe throw in, you know, UC Boulder, you know, something like that. And those are universities that will work with state regulators to approve drugs, diagnostics, you know, and vaccines and what have you, you do the same thing for this upper Midwest compact, where the Mayo Clinic is working with, you know, the local regulators to approve things. And same thing in the northeast, you have Harvard and MIT and the same thing in the New York kind of tri state area compact, you have Columbia and Cornell. And by doing this, now, suddenly, you've got four or five, six, effectively, regulators in each of these regions has like 80 million people or something fairly big, right? They're like, essentially, European countries. But now there's competition for the FDA. And you're not giving up on safety, you're not giving up on quality. What you've got, those are folks who have an incentive to balance quality, with speed and with cost which really, really matter. In a pandemic, very obviously. So but you know, like the Also trude Other times, it's just not, not somewhere everybody's eyes on it.

Unknown Speaker  40:03  
Are you optimistic about our ability to actually execute on this in a reasonable timeframe in a way that can get actual results for this particular crisis? Or is this something that we're going to look at for potentially mitigating future issue, something

Unknown Speaker  40:15  
expanded right to try would be if not a silver bullet, certainly a very, very useful bullet that can be tried right now that unlock a lot of biomedical innovation. And I think, frankly, it's the only way. Yes, the horse has left the barn. In some ways, you know, the fire is gonna burn for quite a while. But um, it's, you know, we need to, even if this fire burns us more than it burns other countries, and it looks like it will. We still need fire hoses. So we have to unlock that biomedical innovation, even if, you know, I shouldn't say too little too late. Because it you know, it'd be great if this had been done five years ago, you know, five years ago, for example, the Apple Watch had a bunch of diagnostic grade stuff in it that the FDA for some either take out or nerf this report to the Wall Street Journal, for example. And so had that been in there had, for example, 23andme, the FDA ran a campaign against them. If If we had 100 million people with genome sequences, maybe we know the pharmacogenomics in immuno genomics of this thing, right? Um, so, you know, yes, it would have been much better had we done this five years ago, 10 years ago. But today is is is, is better than ever. And that'll at least give us the technology where in six months, we'll be in a very even a few months, we'd be in a very different place, if you have right to try expander. I try?

Unknown Speaker  41:32  
Yeah, it seems as though there's demand for change right now, maybe that's the sort of thing that we can come to there is a sense of, of, of needing to do things differently and finding new solutions. I think that when people look at the efficiency, with with China has handled some of their containment efforts, obviously, we're talking about very different cultures with very different views of individual liberty and human rights. But I still think there is a sense of that there is, you know, just the technological solutions that are being applied the speed of innovation. Yeah, it seems as though we have a way to go on this.

Unknown Speaker  42:01  
Yeah, I mean, you know, 1950s, America, had higher state capacity than 1950, China, but 2020, China is, has better as higher shake capacity than 2020. America, that's obvious everybody on the world stage, at least for something like this, if you're familiar with the with the Maginot Line, right from World War Two, you know, that was something where the French developed it for World War One, or rather, after the experience roll or one, you know, to, you know, stop the Germans from coming in, in the same way, you know, that trench warfare that have fortifications, and the Germans said, okay, and they just went around it with with the blitzkrieg, right. And in the same way, what we are learning is that the the two oceans, you know, the Atlantic in the Pacific, that protected us, the aircraft carriers, and, you know, the F 16 ns and this extraordinary Li expensive and gigantic and well trained and equipped military just got completely bypassed by the virus, like, you know, the virus is ultimate asymmetric threat. Not to be clear, I'm not saying it's engineered or anything like that. I'm just saying that it just completely invalidated all those defenses, and has literally, you know, basically taken out aircraft carriers, I don't know if you saw that report from earlier this this month. But, you know, that captain of the aircraft carrier is like, hey, all of my, you know, sailors are getting sick from this, um, you know, like, some of them will die if they don't get treatment. And, you know, let's take them, take them off, otherwise, everyone's going to get sick. So that's like, to my knowledge, the first thing that has taken out an aircraft carrier, and I saw another follow up report that says something like 40, naval warships have had this problem. So, um, so that's a really big deal, because it means that in a sense, the US military is like this giant Maginot Line versus a virus. And, you know, for all the talk of W MD, everyone had focus on nuclear weapons or like Assad with chemical weapons. Looks like every I mean, not every regime in the world is nice. You know, a lot of folks are looking at this and looking at Okay, well, you know, like, the biological stuff really seems to bypass us defenses. So that's like a dangerous, you know, two or three or four year out consequence of a lot of this.

Unknown Speaker  44:11  
Yeah, you know, it's interesting, it feels as though it's not just software that's eating the world, as your colleague Marc Andreessen has suggested, but also the framework of software development, the framework of competitiveness that's brought us more broadly from the software world is eating the world.

Unknown Speaker  44:25  
Yep, that's right. I think basically, the only kinds of states that survive thinking all converges on something I call the network state where so for example, over the last 10 years or so, every company had to become a software company or die. And frankly, actually, that's that's actually happening now. Like in a in an extremely in a way that I didn't expect it to happen. But the way it happened over the last 10 years was okay, Blockbuster Video, you don't go online, okay, Netflix kills you. Okay, Hollywood, you don't go online. Well, iTunes and again, Netflix and so on kill you and and so on, so forth. After taxis, hotels, whatever, right? Um, and now it's something where restaurants that didn't get with doordash par debt, right? You know, like, higher ed, any college that didn't invest in it Coursera and Udacity, and so on is is really out of luck, and so on. Essentially what happened was, anybody who didn't invest in the future, doesn't even have a leg to stand on, because it was just all internet, you know, or die, right. And I think that that's now going to happen at the level of countries. And this is something where I think of as what I think of as the network state. Basically, you either have countries that are run by basically people who I consider the ability level of a top tech CEO, for example, lesion lung of Singapore, you know, he was like a mathematician at Cambridge, you know, was the Wrangler they're like, top his year, in Estonia, this guy to myself who isn't, isn't running the country and was actually president who's never, to my knowledge Prime Minister, but he was a computer scientist at Princeton, and responsible for Estonia's adoption of internet technology is one of the bigger influences on it, and help modernize them and make them into the force that they are today very high strength to weight ratio. In Israel, Netanyahu, you know, he has political issues now. But he was MIT MIT graduate, and certainly an intelligent person. And I think, you know, if you if you go down the list, the folks who are kind of like those who are tech savvy enough to use software and an engineering are the ones who will do well, the other side of it, I think. So that's, that's kind of a state getting the qualities of a company. The flip side is a company getting qualities of a state. And so now, you know, for example, companies can issue digital currencies are trying to, you know, Facebook's trying to Libra. And what I think is going to happen with Facebook, and Google and Amazon and YouTube, and so on and so forth, is they're basically gonna step into the gap, where the who, and un and so on, those are kind of fading and leaving the stage in many ways, because there's a loss of international confidence in them. And so the trustworthy multinational institutions are going to be these giant tech companies. Because, you know, they have billions of users around the world, they have the balance sheets, they're kind of in this sort of diplomat kind of role where they have to maintain relations with lots of different countries. And they, they're frankly, more competent than then, you know, who are you? And who do you trust employment contract racing, you know, there's going to be Apple or Google Not, not really the UN, maybe who, but but they're not, they're not gonna build the code or ship it on billion iOS devices or Android devices. So let me just push back a little bit

Unknown Speaker  47:44  
on it. So we, you know, we all love big tech companies, those of us who are passionate about technology. Sure. And, and but the question is, you know, look, the counter argument could be, look, these are not these are not states, these are not organizations that have the consent of the government, they are there to make money for their shareholders in some might say even more cynically, they're there to make money for management. And look, these do not have the argument would go the interest of the broader population at heart, there's a reason that we have governments and nonprofit corporations that run the world, one could have made this argument in the 19th century, and certainly in the 20th century, about corporations being more effective, more nimble, more technologically savvy, and the history, there is not a very strong one, when you look at things like environmental pollution and those sorts of things. Why should we have trust that big tech companies have the interests of the broader population at heart?

Unknown Speaker  48:35  
So three points are so first is, I don't think one should have implicit trust. So I'm a big fan of crypto and decentralization and antenna encryption, and so on and so forth. I definitely think we need to check on the power of large tech companies which can do censorship D, platforming D monetization. And yes, certainly abuse power for management. So let me put that on the table first. Second is, I do think that with that said, big tech companies are actually in many ways more accountable than let's say, the UN or, you know, who? Because, you know, first of all, they are, you know, you're a shareholder, you know, yes, you could become a shareholder, those, you can't become easily a shareholder of the UN who, number one. And number two, you're, you're often a customer of these companies, and a large customer can, you know, raise a stink or to have you. Number three is, I actually feel that it's more transparent, in the sense of, you know, the process by which who bureaucrat is appointed is not. It's, you know, how much democratic accountability really is there? You know, you vote for a president who appoint somebody who appoints somebody, it gets pretty dilute at that point, you're talking one over 300 million of the vote for you know, this for that. It's effectively zero, right? Whereas, you know, you know, I think that if you actually want to affect that process, you actually go join the who or write about it, and then it's similar to your influence on an apple where you just join apple and right So in terms of practical influence from that standpoint, and then finally, there's aspect of just competence. You know, like, ultimately the proof is in the pudding if you No, I'm not saying it should be clear about this. I'm not saying that centralized governments are necessarily incompetent. In fact, there's a period from 1933 to 1969, roughly Hoover Dam and head project, Apollo project, right? where, you know, in that period, the United States government got all the best talent, and all the best scientists and was able to do things that no private sector company could do. I think, I would argue that's because technology in the mid 20th century, greatly favored centralization. It was mass media, and it was mass production. It was mass society. And you basically couldn't make something unless a bunch of people were in a factory all working together. So you need ideologies, that that supported those technologies. And then if you go both forward and backward in time, you go more and more decentralized, like 1950 is kind of like a mirror moment. And you know where you have. So for example, 1950, you have one telephone company, and you have two super powers, and you have three television stations. So it's like the the centralized century, and then you go forward in time, and you get on cable television, and then you get the internet. And you start getting the explosion of things after the internet. It's like the internet's reopening the frontier, you go backwards in time from 1950, you know, pre World War One, and then you go to 1890, and the frontier reopens, as you go backwards in time, then you get robber barons. And so I think, in many ways, our future is like our past, this has been something I've been writing about for a long time. And it's jumbled, it's not necessarily in exactly the same order. But guess what, we just kind of replayed this route for replaying the Spanish flu. You know, like, it's a little bit out of order, you know, robber baron Spanish flu. There's other things, by the way, in the 1830s, there was a whole thing about private banking, or do you know about that?

Unknown Speaker  51:51  
Yes, of course.

Unknown Speaker  51:52  
Yeah. Okay, great. Yeah. Private Banking. Yeah. Right. So that's come back to with crypto, you know, and so essentially, it was

Unknown Speaker  51:59  
like, you have this sort of sinusoidal wave of centralization and decentralization, that continues to alternate, I'm curious about what you think about the potential to do in some of these, and in an open source way, perhaps in a way that is not as proprietary, and that doesn't belong to, you know, pick the larger tech company of your choosing?

Unknown Speaker  52:19  
Yeah, so so that's actually what I do care about that a lot. And I think that, you know, what would blockchains allow us to do, and it's not just blockchains, but let's just say decentralized technologies, okay. Um,

Unknown Speaker  52:31  
give us a flavor of what that means for people who aren't as familiar totally,

Unknown Speaker  52:35  
totally, totally. So, um, most people probably grew up listening to this are familiar with the concept of open source, right, which is source code that you can download and inspect and look at, and replicate and usually modify and what have you, right, and the fact that you can do that gives you more confidence in its correctness, and so on, and so forth. Right?

Unknown Speaker  52:54  
Actually, I'm gonna say something I'm not sure that most people are familiar with the open source movement. I think we're passionate about technology are familiar with the open source movement. But this is a great model than most people who have iOS or Android phones, for example, are used to thinking about, so a little bit about that. Yeah,

Unknown Speaker  53:09  
sure. Sure. It's, it's funny, because, um, okay, well, it first, iOS and Android are very heavily based on open source technologies. Android itself is essentially Linux, though, they have closed up pieces of it effectively over time. It's basically like copyright almost, you know, if you can just take content, images, music files, and mix them together freely. It's easy to make something cool and creative in a mashup. If you have to go and get a bunch of license agreements from people. That's massive friction, and it means you're just not going to do it. Because it's so hard to do it. It's that you just don't do it right. And so that's kind of what open source is like. It's, it's basically something where you can look at code, take snippets, be inspired by it, understand what's going on, get smarter, and then share it with others. One metaphor for this might be, we were talking earlier about BMJ, the last set the New England Journal of Medicine, one metaphor might be the idea of peer reviewed journals are open source in the sense that the information is really shareable, you can comment on it, you can replicate or attempt to replicate it, you can analyze it, right, though, you know, not all those journals. They don't, there's a whole movement for so called reproducible research. So not every journal article is, quote, reproducible research, but it's getting better over time. Okay, so now, this may be it for an audience that is new to open source, the following what I'm about to say may be too much of a leap, but I'll just go there anyway. So what blockchains give you is kind of the next step after open source, which is open state and open execution. Okay? So open state means you don't have the source code. You also have the database. Okay, so that's publicly visible now. And open execution means you're Just have the source code and the database, you can trace through every single step that's happening. So let me give you an example. Um, you know, people wonder whether Twitter is filtering their searches, right? Am I you know, getting filtered or what have you. If Twitter is, and it's not possible today, but it might be possible, it probably will be possible in like 10 years, maybe maybe sooner. If Twitter was based on a blockchain, like back end, you could inspect it for yourself, or get a developer to, to confirm that, Oh, your searches aren't being filtered. Right? Okay. So that's actually really interesting, where it's a stateful application that millions of people can write to and read from at the same time, yet operates in a low trust way, where essentially, you can use computation to confirm that it's not biased against you. And in fact, that it cannot be biased against you, because it's cryptographically guaranteed to not be able to be biased against you. And that's like a really, really powerful construct, where essentially what we do is we trade computational time for trust, because computational time has become cheaper, right to do essentially math that your CPUs can crank out, to replace or reduce the need for human trust.

Unknown Speaker  56:16  
You know, this has been an incredibly wide ranging discussion. And, you know, we've talked to we begin with, with your background in technology and business, we shifted over the virus. We've talked now about these broader philosophical issues. Looking back on this, I'm not sure we could have done it any differently, because you really are framing a different approach to management, a different approach to governance, a different approach to the way that we think about challenges in the in the health and medical domain, but also more broadly. So as we come to the close of this interview, did you start to sum up things that people can take away from this, and maybe other ideas that they should explore if they're interested in some of the topics that we touched on today,

Unknown Speaker  56:56  
macro kind of points. Um, I think that what, what we're going to see is a centralized East in a decentralized West. So that's to say, I think that Asian countries will, by and large, probably be able to control the virus and keep their economies together. with some exceptions, not hundred percent, but generally speaking, and then those that don't, China will export a green zone to them, that say, the most important export that China has now is the ability to turn something into a green zone and buy a green zone, I mean, a place that has no new cases of the virus for let's say, the last four weeks, okay? So it's a way to get the virus under control, but testing and quarantine and lockdown and surveillance, and so on and so forth. So any country that is a red zone, that wants to become a green zone, can say, okay, hey, you know, China, you can put boots on the ground here, I'm just please fix my country. And so that's kind of like Belton road 2.0, okay, where metallic China essentially expands into Africa into Iran into all these places where it already was, was present. So the commons, you'll be able to, like walk around in Asia, I think, in the West, I think we're gonna get something very different, which is I this one liner, the virus breaks centralized states. So if you've got a large centralized state that is simply not at the clock speed doesn't move at the speed of the virus, um, you're going to face defection from within, like, for example, there's individual Italian towns that are barring entry to people. Okay. And, you know, this happening in the US.

Unknown Speaker  58:36  
I mean, that that represents a dramatic shift in the conception of the nation state and the ability of federalized governments to actually implement execute and manage.

Unknown Speaker  58:45  
That's exactly right. And the thing is, you know, the, like, if it's just one city that was doing this, you know, the other like the rest of Italy, which is, I don't know, how many thousand cities would provide the resources to tell that one city No, you can't do this. Right? It'd be n versus one point, it's happening in every city at the same time, you know, things fall apart, the center cannot hold, right. This happening in the us too. By the way, there's like a North Carolina county that's like barring entrance 16 seats have had quarantine borders since like, early April, I need to look at the latest numbers. But basically, interstate travel is harder than it's ever been before. You have to basically stay 14 days, you know, as you go state to state. And so what I think happens, not ever

Unknown Speaker  59:26  
just since 1865,

Unknown Speaker  59:29  
sure. Okay, fine. You're right. Even in fact, I'd say like maybe even 1789 or something. Yeah, you're right. It has to be like Civil War level stuff. Right. And Tyler Collins also observed this, he's talked about how we're basically returning to the Articles of Confederation. And, you know, Confederation didn't used to be a bad word. It just meant that, you know, there's more devolution of power. And that's basically what's happening. And that's how you're seeing Cuomo and others all talk about the 10th amendment. The states are renegotiating their contract with the federal government and essentially, the US is becoming a monetary union, where the main thing that unites it is the dollar. And states are pursuing increasingly different policies on critical matters of, you know, things like lockdown, which affect, you know, their economy and health and so on. And they're just going their own way, right. And then so if the US is becoming the EU, and basically, at least federating the EU is essentially, in my view, de facto broken up. And the reason I say that is, countries have, you know, denied each other masks, they've denied each other aid, they've closed their borders to each other on, you know, this is something that was already shaky for the last 10 years after the financial crisis, the Greeks versus the Germans, and back and forth for a while on and, you know, hungry, going and doing its thing. You know, obviously, Brexit, there's a bunch of different countries that want to break off for a bunch of different reasons, a bunch of different directions. And what the whole thing reminds me of geopolitically my macro view is, this is similar to what happened in the 80s, with the Eastern Bloc in the USSR. So they kind of tottering over the course, the 80s, you know, you had solidarity and you had glasnost and perestroika, and you basically, you know, you had the bread lines, and essentially, faith in the Soviet system seemed to be tottering. And then suddenly, it all just came apart with the Berlin Wall and 89, you know, the the break of the Eastern Bloc, and then eventually, you know, the fall of the Soviet Union by December 1991, the whole thing just broke apart. And that's, I think this is at that level. I think this is something where, at a minimum, it's causing the breakup of the EU and the radical decentralization of the US into these interstate compacts is there like sci fi headlines, by the way, you know, right, like, like Gavin Newsom announces and other two states joining the western states compact, that's absolutely sci fi headlines, and will have medium to long term serious consequences. Not necessarily all bad, by the way, because it could be that smaller states, in this time, are easier to manage and give you more options, you know, more more different modes of governance more, you know, different real things, we're already going in this direction with sanctuary cities and in different gun laws and different marijuana laws. And this is that to the nth power. And so so we get I think macro is you have the centralized east, and you have a decentralized West, where there's now maybe dozens of polities with different policies. And then once we kind of stabilize, some of those will be green zones, and some will be red zone ones, which have more or less control over the virus, and also better or worse economies, because anything that's become a red zone is a place where lots of people die, where the economy is hit, because there's lockdowns and shutdowns and social distancing, and people fleeing, and red zones get burnt out like Detroit, or maybe not exactly at that level. But similarly, and green zones, by contrast, have lots of people who want to immigrate there who want to buy property there who want to come there. And green zones will be very picky about which immigrants they let in with these community passports or other kinds of things. As we come to a close here, there are so a lot of people who are suffering with this virus, people who are suffering economically, obviously, the people who are sick and who have lost, who have lost loved ones, in terms of framing out what you think incident is the single most important thing that we can do, to really kind of attempt to either solve the underlying medical problems that people are experiencing, which have been so terrible, and or to attempt to get the economy back on track and move our world so that we can continue to build capacity to fight this virus and to support people's lives. What would you say to someone who asked you to answer that question, you know, in two minutes or less? Sure. So I'd say we have to set the virus, we shouldn't let it go to 100%. First, we should have expanded right to try such that states can rapidly approve tests on vaccines and drugs without going through the FDA. Second, state should close borders and whether at the state or county level, should adopt a policy of lockdown until zero new cases, after which they do test trace and isolate on to basically make sure that you know that that cases aren't just flying around. Third, you know, they should open up carefully with masks mandatory for everybody, social distancing, with everything that they could possibly do in terms of telework, in terms of banning things like pin pads or other forms of contagion forth, they should basically the same right to try should accelerate drugs and vaccines. And fifth, we should take some of these you know trillions of dollars in in printed money and allocate it towards prizes for vaccines for masks for this and that relatedly six, we should remove price controls from these things because, you know, this is not like a one day thing like a hurricane where you can accuse somebody of price gouging or what have you. This is something where the economy is reallocating and if you You can't have if people are not allowed to make large amounts of money, for example, making masks or making drugs or vaccines, then they cannot hire lots of people and put them back to work. So it's actually really important that people be allowed to make a lot of money doing covered response in order to hire people and put them back to work. Because otherwise, you know, you you get the the worst of all worlds was about the viral and the economic destruction. So that's the summary just to recap, a expanded right to try be locked down till known cases, C test trace and isolate to keep cases down. D accelerate drugs and vaccines, there's things called challenge trials, for example, that could accelerate it, where people are exposed to the vaccine or take the vaccine, they're exposed to virus on purpose to see if it works on he makes sure that you're giving prizes and things like that allocating monies towards funding these technologies and F take away the price controls and other kinds of things that are restricting people from from getting the economy going again. So that's like, a two minute drill. I could do it much longer. But hopefully that's interesting.

Unknown Speaker  1:06:07  
Yes, wonderful. You know, we've barely scratched the surface here. I feel like we could go on for hours to talk about this. I hope you'll come back to talk about the broader framework. And, you know, to get into some of the things that you think that the United States needs to do to become more competitive. It's been an incredibly interesting conversation. Thank you for joining us.

Unknown Speaker  1:06:25  
If you're ready to go beyond the interview, make sure you visit real vision comm where you can try real vision plus for 30 days for just $1. We'll see you next time right here on real vision.

Transcribed by https://otter.ai
