Unknown Speaker  0:00  
Hey everybody, it's Eric Tarver, co founder, partner, village global eight network driven, venture firm. And this is Metro stories, a podcast covering topics relating to tech business with world leading experts.

Unknown Speaker  0:21  
Hey, everybody, it's Eric dornburg, I recorded the following episode front of a live audience at the borderless summit with Balaji Srinivasan, what's up everybody? How are we doing? We're doing good. Please give a round of applause. Welcome Balaji. Welcome yourselves. So before we get started, there's a little bit of a congratulations in order. And if you guys have been following apologies, May May in early June, but it's been pretty significant. not one, but two acquisitions, almost half a billion dollars and exits sort of joke, overnight success. 10 years in the making council started, you know, almost 10 years ago, or over 10 years ago, and earn, which sold sold to Coinbase. So now you're the CTO of Coinbase. Talk about what's Coinbase his mission right now. And what's your focus within that broader mission?

Unknown Speaker  1:08  
Yeah, sure. So I think a great way to think about Coinbase is it's the interface, right? Its interface between the legacy banking system and kind of this blockchain future and similar to actually like AOL in the early days in a way where, you know, as interface between legacy phone lines, and this intranet future, but we're talking about dentistry and banking and crypto, we think of it as like, you know, the classical mullet business, you know, business in the front and party in the back. And what that means is we need to maintain good relationships with banks and regulators and politicians to maintain our Fiat rails. And we also need to meet, you know, be on the cutting edge of crypto and blockchain to make sure we're abreast of that. And so there's a kind of duality to the business. And, you know, while I spend, you know, time on both both sides, certainly my focus is more on the crypto side, making sure that that end of the businesses is working, one of our biggest focuses that we've you know, talked about is trying to push crypto from the investment phase into the utility phase. So, you know, lots and lots of people have bought crypto and have, you know, made money on it hoping you know, having it go up. But, you know, the next phase is now that millions of people around the world value this you can actually use as a payment rail. And that's actually kind of a an important point.

Unknown Speaker  2:14  
Yeah. So 20 million Quint music. How many glorious counts? Are there?

Unknown Speaker  2:18  
We I think we stopped publishing the Exactly. Okay. And you need scientific notation?

Unknown Speaker  2:21  
How do we get orders of magnitude more people using crypto?

Unknown Speaker  2:25  
Right? So great question. So we know we want to go from where we are to like a billion users, right? And how do we get a billion people onto the blockchain? Well, what's interesting about that is, you know, if you think about what Facebook did, they sent a billion people over about eight years. And if you just think about what the signup service would be required to do that, it's about four people every second for eight years, right? It's about, you know, 320,000 a day times, you know, that per year over over over that period of time. Simply, you know, a signup service taking four requests per second is actually a pretty high traffic web service. And if you now multiply that by, you know, all the other stuff you need to do on the site, and all the stuff all the traffic on the blockchain, that's gonna be a very non trivial technical Feat. What it also means is actually that even in three years from now, the vast majority people in the world will even if the growth rate is totally vertical, the vast majority people will will still be being introduced to crypto. So a huge part of it is going to be education and onboarding. And that's going to continue for the foreseeable future.

Unknown Speaker  3:22  
So with urn, you're trying to do a few things. One of those things was create a parallel economy. Yeah. where people can get paid to was create the infrastructure for the machine payable web, talk about how partner with coin base allows you to achieve your your broader vision with what you're trying to do with Ern.

Unknown Speaker  3:38  
Yeah, sure. So basically, you know, we think that there is room for a new generation of social networks, which I call kind of blockchain first social networks. Critically, the idea is not to try to decentralize everything at once. I think going full blockchain in 2018 is hard to do. Instead, think of the blockchain as a second kind of back end service that provides your users with a balances and B private keys and thus the ability to encrypt messages and you know, sign contracts and all that type of stuff. And if you have that as an augmentation to an existing social network with, you know, its Postgres database, and ability to serve up images and what have you, you've got something quite powerful because you can go from a social network where people just poke and like and tweet each other something where they're actually earning money, right, they're completing tasks, they're replying to emails and getting paid and so on. And so that's kind of this next generation of social networks and earn was actually doing quite well a profitable business making millions of dollars in revenue simply because lots of businesses want to pay to reach people, right? Like you know, people will definitely pay to get a reply to an email to get a survey completed, etc. With coin bases user base, you know, we have like many millions of users, and that year will be to put those two together. So now we can have millions of people completing tasks and getting paid for earning cryptocurrency. The reason I think this is interesting is in the three to five year you know, window, what we'd love to do is take all these people around the world who have have smartphones, and not just give them information, but give them income, right they open the earn app. They've got a, you know, list of tasks, and those tasks are personalized to them. And if you can program then you can, you know, get a JavaScript task or if you're a lawyer, you get a legal task and so on. And just like the Twitter feed, you never run out of tasks that you can do. You can just earn money from anywhere. That's where we want to be in like five years.

Unknown Speaker  5:15  
Yep. And you gave a couple talks in the last couple years. One of them is called Silicon Valley's ultimate exit. The other was called the network state, sort of building upon a few ideas, but one of them was it was this broader concept of, there isn't enough exit in terms of in terms of where we live, and and governments and cities should be competing over over over the best talent and offering so that they are offering better services so that we're having more experimentation, more experiments, similar to you know, Amazon had, you know, a lot of cities in the US competing over who gets Amazon's HQ, or, you know, special economic zones in China. Talk about what you were trying to do achieve with those talks. And what's the next iteration of that that talk in in 2018?

Unknown Speaker  5:57  
Yeah, good question. So, you know, the concept of competitive government is certainly not something that's novel to me or anything like that. Insofar as there is a novel aspect to this, it's kind of thinking about, okay, how does new technology actually make competitive government possible, right, there's a few observations, you know, one is that mobile is making this more mobile. And law is a function of latitude and longitude. That is to say, your xy location determines the local and then the state and the federal overlays that apply to you and that constraint or incentivize your behavior. So if laws function, legend, longitude, and mobiles make us from mobile, it's becoming easier to change your latitude and longitude and thus easier to change the law under which you live, right. That's like an interesting combination of two obvious observations that lead to a non obvious observation, which is the cost of changing your law, your governing law is decreasing rapidly, because you know, you can just use a smartphone, and you can call an Uber and get an Airbnb, and all your books are in the cloud and your musics in the cloud, and you're just more mobile as digital, your your friends are in the cloud, that's an underappreciated aspect of social networks, the penalty for moving is less, because many of your friends, you don't even actually know where they live anymore. But you're still friends with them on Facebook or on you know, Snapchat or whatever, right? Just kind of one aspect of it is this increased mobility is increasing the ability for people to exit and that's making a lot of the ideas around competitive government have been around for decades, newly relevant, I think the second aspect is the stuff you can do in place. So not necessarily physically moving. But I think there's three technologies that are going to be converging over the next 10 years or so, which are social networks, blockchain and VR. So social networks, which blockchain is what we just talked about, which are social networks that you can actually go and earn money in, right. And I think that's the next five years. So earn is one variation on that steam, it's another variation, I think there's going to be others and these will have, you know, use the blockchain in different ways, some will, you know, pay people for generating content, some will pay people for, you know, replies and completing tasks like we're doing, some of them will, you know, pay people to, or use more than encryption features to be synonymous. The other leg of it is social networks plus VR, you're seeing some of that already with like the our chat, right, basically, the our communities that, you know, are kind of like MMO RPG, which have been around for 15 years, very immersive, except kind of addressing a different audience. And I think eventually, all three of those technologies come together, maybe in you know, 10 years, I think five years would be the very earliest, and when you get social networks plus blockchain plus VR, that's what I call like a digital economy, right. And a digital economy is something where you can put on your, you know, next generation VR headset, and you can actually work there, right, that's your morning commute. You know, your morning commute is your morning commute, right? And you just boom, you go into this VR world, and you're earning digital currency for doing digital work. And more and more work is already becoming digital. It's not just programmers, and, and designers, and so on. But legal work is all electronic. Right? A lot of medical work is fundamentally about returning a diagnosis or returning instructions given given inputs, even things like construction work, or turning into instructions to drones and things like that. So more and more work will become digital, more and more people will go into these digital economies. And that's really amazing. Because that means you don't necessarily need a visa, you just need to be able to log in to that, you know that that digital economy. And so if you want a borderless world, that's where it gets to, right. But I do believe that, you know, that login service, you know, you're not going to let in every single person into that login service, it's going to be you know, if they're a bad actor, you will ban them or whatever. But it will be much more flexible. You'll have quote, visas to thousands of these virtual countries, these digital economies, and that's what you're built to earn.

Unknown Speaker  9:17  
And let's say more about how identity is going to look like because when we say pseudonymous people automatically assume anonymous and assume that there's going to be no accountability. Right? Talk about, you know, Where's it? Where's the balance there between freedom between accountability? And how's that gonna work?

Unknown Speaker  9:30  
Yeah, great question. So there's a huge difference between anonymous pseudonymous, and like full real name, right. And like, you know, a full real name is like a global identifier. That's, that's an identifier of identifiers that links you across everything. You can plug it into a database and pull your social security information and your current address and, you know, tax stuff and employment history and all that type of stuff. Right? So it's like a primary key in the database, but a pseudonym, whereas a completely anonymous identity has none, no metadata whatsoever, right? a pseudonym is intermediate Where you have, you know, some track record, right, you have some posting history. And with cryptocurrency, you might have some earning history, or you might have a stake associated with it. So you could imagine, for example, a Twitter, like a v2, Twitter or crypto Twitter, where everybody has a stake, like $1. And if you behave badly, someone wouldn't just be able to block you, but they could burn your dollar. Right? And now, that'd be something that wouldn't actually benefit them. And they wouldn't do it for just, you know, a random reason. But what it would mean is that people would actually be polite because their system pseudonymous identities, were tied to like $1. And there'd be a cost for actually going into screaming at someone on the internet imagining YouTube comments. Oh, my God. Yeah. So like, the thing is, you know, this is not a completely unheard of concept, the contract in Russia actually charged like $1, for people to, you know, get get signed up. And that was immensely useful in terms of just making people behave better, right, like a slight amount of skin in the game, make people behave better.

Unknown Speaker  10:54  
Yeah. So we're at the borderless summit, I want to talk both on the how it affects, you know, macro trends, but also, you know, people's personal careers. And one of the things we talked about the past, it uses your ideas, concept where, you know, in past 1015 years, something like Y Combinator is said, move to San Francisco, start a company, and raise venture, and now in a new world, in some ways, your your thesis, one of these is, you know, you can live anywhere, or move away, or it's cheaper, you don't have to start a company or work remotely, and save money, preserve your runway to talk more about that the system, what that means for for entrepreneurs and operators.

Unknown Speaker  11:30  
Yeah, instead, to be clear, I have a lot of respect for my comedy writer and PG and everything they've done, but in the same way that like, you know, your tech stack in 2005, you know, might have been Java based or whatever. And now, it's, it's not, it's going to be you know, like, like something different, right? In the same way, some of the things that were true, then are no longer as true now, right, you don't need to come to sand hill anymore to raise capital, you can do it via you know, Icos, it's very new, you don't need to live in the United States to have a good standard of living. Many countries around the world, especially in Asia, have dramatically improved over the last, you know, 1020 years in terms of standard of living, and you know, just like as a show of hands for Who here has rent as their number one expense, okay, most of you're actually wrong, tax is probably your actual number one expense, the rents are probably your number two, and it is much, much, much easier to chop your living expenses, your rent and your burn rate to one fifth to 20% or 10%. Of what what they currently are to decrease your net worth by 10 X. Right. So moving overseas to a place like Kuala Lumpur, or you know, like, like some inexpensive locale that still has fast internet, right, there's, there's companies like this Nomad list, there's a company that I founded, we sold it a couple years ago called teleport, that are search engines for location, which allow you to take your current lifestyle and find the location around the world that best suits you, well, which also reduces your cost of living, right? If you can do that, if you can move overseas, and now cut your burn rate by, you know, five x, you know, I think the most important metric for an individual is your personal runway, which is your savings divided by your burn rate. And everybody thinks about the top line, but very, very few people think about the bottom line, which actually have more control over and now that we're in this era of remote work and mobile. And you know, like a lot of folks here are our software engineers or designers, or some somebody who can work internationally. If you're just starting out, what I advise you to do is go get a job at Google or Facebook or Coinbase. Or, or what have you get, you know, have a good salary or what have you kick but at least for the first year, and then consider maybe turning down the promotion, and instead asking, Hey, you know, show myself to be a responsible person, show myself to kick butt, let me move overseas, so that I can keep the same salary, but I can bank you know, 4050 60% more per year, right? Then a couple of years, you've got years of personal runway, because you've just cut your expenses so much that if you've got you know, 30 k a year expenditure, and you've got 100,000 savings, you've got three years, so you don't need Angel financing, you can just bootstrap the business yourself own 100% of the equity. So I think that's a really interesting strategy that's newly possible in 2018. That hasn't been possible before.

Unknown Speaker  13:57  
Let's zoom out a bit more macro. How are governments viewing? You know, blockchain and crypto right now? How should they be viewing it? How's the US viewing it as China viewing it? And you guys as the forefront of, of bring crypto to the world? How do you think about the role of government?

Unknown Speaker  14:12  
Yeah. So I think there's been a huge, frankly, positive shift over the last five years, where you know, that there's not a day that goes by where some government official or bank or politician doesn't make some comments pro or con on blockchain technology. But if you zoom out for a second, what are Bill Gates and Warren Buffett and jamie diamond and Christine Lagarde and Ben Bernanke he and and all these people, what are they talking about? They're talking about blockchain, right? They're not talking about, I don't know, something else, right? They're not talking about disappearing photos or what have you. We're talking about blockchain. And so that means that this thing that started on an internet forum, right, like like, one pseudo anonymous person or group 10 years ago, has shaken the world with just the power of an idea and the power of the execution of that through software. And the world is moving in the direction of blockchain if you zoom out and you look at Okay, what does The last 510 years look like? Well, I mean, you know, we've got something where heads of state and Malta and Bermuda are doing meetings with blockchain companies. We got something where the head of the IMF has given a whole speech about how blockchain is like an important corrective to central banks and whatnot. And the reason I think that's interesting is, you know, yes, there's pro and con comments. But for every con, there's a pro, right? For every you know, jamie diamond, there's a Lloyd Blankfein who's saying positive things about blockchain. So that like at a high level is very important because he would only if if 100% of the world's governments and institutions and so on were aligned against blockchain, it'd be difficult, but it's not 100%. In fact, like 50% are Pro, and so long as everybody doesn't stop it, it's going to flourish. Those regions, those areas, those institutions that do support it, and so I think it's gonna break through.

Unknown Speaker  15:42  
There's some smart people, Warren Buffett, Bill Gates recently thrown shade, what are they not seeing? Or where their points justified or anything about that? So,

Unknown Speaker  15:48  
you know, obviously, super smart people. Buffett has said, for example, that he doesn't understand technology companies, and that he was wrong, and Amazon and so on, right, Bill Gates a different matter. But, you know, even Bill Gates like, you know, Google was out there, right? You know, like, they're things that they missed at Microsoft, and super smart people, lots of respect for them. But you know, it doesn't actually matter if they're critical, because the blockchain just kind of keeps going. Right. You know, one thing I will mention in terms of government resistance, I feel actually pretty confident on this point now, because early last year, you know, China was, you know, or Chinese exchanges were most of the volume was the mining was in China, you know, people thought, Well, if there's a huge crackdown by the Chinese government, blockchain would be in big trouble. That actually did happen, right? China took a pretty hard swing at the blockchain. Last year, exchanges were shuttered, mining was encouraged to move overseas. You know, a lot of people were seriously inconvenienced. But you know, like Nietzsche said, it did not kill the blockchain and made it stronger. price went up, like more than 10 x, right from both Bitcoin and aetherium, the entire Ico boom happened, right. And that was probably, you know, certainly the government of the largest country by population in the world, and certainly one of the most technically sophisticated and, frankly, aggressive in terms of what they're willing to do in terms of internet filtering, and privacy, monitoring, and all that type of stuff. They took the hard swing of the blockchain sub 20 x, right. And so I think like, that's kind of the trial run, I do think there's at least one thing that we have not yet encountered, which, which we may encounter at some point, which is partition tolerance, you know, you could imagine a Great Firewall actually starting to try to block packets, you know, at Port 8223, which is a Bitcoin port or other ports. And if you really start doing deep packet filtering, there's a predator prey kind of aspect to it. There's a possibility that mining extensive blockchain within China, but transactions are happening outside and there'll be a peekaboo effect, where you may not be able to see those transactions, there might be a partition. So I think partition tolerant blockchains are an important thing to research to kind of guard against that. That's like kind of the last man to beat in terms of government challenges. But But I actually feel pretty, pretty good about it, because anything short of that we've kind of already survived. And we're going to do well.

Unknown Speaker  17:47  
So you're a history buff. We talk about Chinese history, Russian history, French history, which historical period, do you think right now is most analogous to something where we're thinking about right now as it relates to as well as cryptos? Was technologies related to innovation? Yeah,

Unknown Speaker  18:00  
I think 1800s America in reverse, right. Okay, so, so I think of like 1950 as peak centralization. So you have, you know, one telephone company, and you have two superpowers, and you have three television stations. And then if you move forward and backwards in time, things get more decentralized. So if you move forwards in time, from 1950, you know, you get cable television, and then you get the internet, frontier opening in 1991, basic commercial internet traffic became legal, then, if you move backwards in time, almost exactly 100 years earlier. 1890 is when the frontier closed. And if you move forward, you know, 20 years from 1990, you get to, you know, 2010, that era now, where you have all of these wealthy folks who made money on the internet are all this radically fast innovation where you barefield you know, bear service before now you've got something move backwards in time from 1890, you get a similar era, where you have Rockefeller and Carnegie and you have all these tycoons, you know, nowadays called robber barons at the time called captains of industry, who built railroads and who built basically kind of, you know, the West in America. And you go a little bit further back, and you get to the time of private banking, right? So businessinsider has this whole thing on this the free banking era where banks would issue their own script. And it's kind of similar to what we're in now. Right. And so I think 1800s America kind of moving backwards in time starts to to be a good parallel for our current era where things get more and more decentralized, then you get to 1700. America, then things get interesting.

Unknown Speaker  19:21  
What can we learn from? No, you're fascinated by China by both it's somewhat radical, free market, you know, zones, but also it's a heavy state control. There's what were some of the misconceptions about, about China that we have in the West and what we learn from?

Unknown Speaker  19:35  
Yes, so I mean, like, you know, obviously, China has its pros and cons. But I think, you know, the, so one of the biggest is the Chinese are actually much more innovative than people give them credit for, especially today. They've kind of ascended the value chain. And they are, you know, just like in Japan had certain areas that they became very internationally competitive in, you know, automobiles and and, you know, consumer electronics and other kinds of stuff. You know, China has chosen certain domains like drones, You know, with with DGI, and genomics would be gi. And actually, you know, weird way blockchain Zhi Jing Ping actually just made some positive comments on this surely a lot of Chinese leaders in the space, even if the Chinese government is kind of, of two minds and quaza, you know, like, like attacking it. And certainly AI, which they're all in on. And one thing that's really interesting is the asymmetric nature of it, where Chinese entrepreneurs read TechCrunch, they're hyper aware of everything going on in the US. And us entrepreneurs do not go and look at eight BTC BTC, calm and they don't read, you know, Chinese blogs and whatnot. So it's very asymmetric, where this group is aware of all dangers from here, but not vice versa. I think, you know, better translation stuff might change that. I think the blockchain is really interesting, because for the first time, I'm seeing a lot of seed stage interaction between Chinese capitalists and Chinese, you know, entrepreneurs and American and Western ones. And we'll see what happens.

Unknown Speaker  20:49  
Another idea you've been really fascinated by local investment by is tokens step, a lot of people just confuse tokens and Icos, it doesn't necessarily have to be for raising money, but just for insight and sending aligning incentives within a network, once that idea you've talked about is personal tokens. Talk a little bit about that, or any other ideas related to tokens that are really fascinating right now. Sure.

Unknown Speaker  21:07  
So like, you know, if you take your company, right, you've got different ways to finance it. Two of those ways, certainly not all, but two of those ways are debt financing, and equity financing, debt financing, you take, you know, a loan, and you take a loan of a million dollars, and then you have to pay back, like 1.2 million or 1.3 million over a period of time, right? And that works. If you're a cash flow business, you're generating cash, right? conversely, equity financing, you don't take a loan, you sell a percentage of your kind of capital structure or your cap table, and you don't have to pay it back in cash instead, if you're bought, then, you know, the the early investor gets some of those proceeds, right. So in the same way, right now, like the way that people are funding a lot of their lives is with student loans, and, you know, 30 year mortgage, which are just two forms of debt financing, right? What if we could bring equity style financing down to load the individual, where, you know, if you rather than taking on, like a student loan at age 18, when people don't know, really what their future is, instead, you know, based on their shgs, and their GPA, and all the other stuff that submit to college, you can imagine people would issue a personal token, and then buyers, that personal tournament, sort of, you know, bet that this this person will, you know, achieve things in their life. And they'll get a return on that. There's various ways to accomplish that, for example, if you sell a personal token, and you sell 20% of it, then you commit to having 20% of your equity of any company that you go in and put into this pool. And then it's returned back to the folks who back to you initially, various ways to structure it. The tricky part is, of course going to be how do you make sure that that person actually pays their money into that crypto account and doesn't renege on it? There's probably reputational services that could take take, take that into account. And the cool thing about this is you wouldn't have a lifetime of debt. When you get out of college and you know, you're young person and said, you'd have a different way to finance your life. They're self ipo.com is like a, you know, you're the one who sent that link. We've been talking about this for a while. So it's a kind of a first cut of the concept. Totally,

Unknown Speaker  22:54  
let's summarize, how does blockchain best enable global equality for people out there in India or wherever you're listening? How should they be thinking about his way to directly improve their life? And on a macro sense, although, you know, like all technology, we're aligned, that its overall net positive? What are some of the trade offs that that we make in this process? And how can we, you know, correct against them a little bit actually be thing? Sure,

Unknown Speaker  23:16  
I think, you know, what blockchain means is what technology means it means more upside and more downside, right. You know, cryptocurrency is like, it's the Unix of money, you can move millions of dollars with a keystroke, or you can run dash RF, your entire fortune, right? So I think on balance, it's going to be positive, because what we'll do is all those failure modes, we can usually use technology to fix those. For example, you can have, you know, backup keys or multi SIG, so you can't just delete all your own keys, but someone else could help you restore them sitting on balance is going to be positive. But in the short term, it's going to be more upside more downside.

Unknown Speaker  23:52  
And what I think what people often don't realize how important the hyper liquidity is, and what that means. Can you share more about the benefits of liquid markets?

Unknown Speaker  24:00  
Yeah, sure. So Well, I mean, if you compare like American versus European options, and in traditional financial markets, the difference between the two is due to the fact that one of them, you can exit at any time, you know, over the time to maturity, Brazil when you have to wait until the end to exit and the fact that you can get out of the position somewhere in between versus at the end that you have that liquidity does itself have a premium value that you can assign to it. So there is a quote, liquidity premium. And anything that can be tokenized, eventually will be simply because of that liquidity premium, the ability to you know, sell your position or get back in within, you know, like months or years or a year rather than 10 years is a very big deal. Now, obviously, that has to be done in a way that's compliant with local regulations and what have you, but there will be at least some governments that that adopt that kind of mentality, and those are the ones that are gonna attract the next Wall Street based on the blockchain. Awesome.

Unknown Speaker  24:51  
Well, that's all our time for today. Please give a round of applause for Balaji and thank you for coming over. Just real quick. I'm Eric Thomas. At village global.pc Balaji where can people find you online? And what's upcoming for you in coin base with a sharp?

Unknown Speaker  25:05  
Yeah, I mean twitter.com Balaji. So don't post on there too much, but also blog coinbase.com

Unknown Speaker  25:11  
awesome. Another round of applause. Thank you, sir.

Unknown Speaker  25:23  
If you're an early stage entrepreneur, we'd love to hear from you. Check out more at www dot village global.vc. We'd love to learn more about what you're up to

Transcribed by https://otter.ai
