Unknown Speaker  0:00  
Hey friends, he masari investor and the former CTO of Coinbase. He is a serial entrepreneur, one of the leading thinkers in Silicon Valley. And, as I said before, we owe him a debt of gratitude for his early, outspoken and contrarian and right coverage of the Coronavirus. So Balaji Srinivasan is going to talk about decentralizing media Balaji. Welcome. Thank you anyway. Can you hear me, right? Yes, we can. Okay, clear. All right. Awesome. Okay. Yeah. So I'm Tim going to talk about decentralizing media, and essentially talk about how we can move from centralized legacy media corporations, to where we currently are social media corporations, also centralized to decentralized media, essentially, a network of personal media corporations. And I'm basically gonna describe, kind of motivation, and then a feature list. And then current technologies for implementation that implement pieces of that feature list. And then if you want to learn more, if we launch something on this, please follow me@twitter.com Balaji. Yes. Okay, so just jumping in.

Unknown Speaker  1:10  
So just as an overview,

Unknown Speaker  1:13  
you know, there's this famous saying, freedom of the press, belongs to those who have one. And, you know, you may like or dislike them. But centralized media corporations are not perfectly aligned with your interests. Okay, that is true for both the New York Times company and Facebook for both legacy media corporations and social media corporations, if you're not the publisher of The New York Times, with the CEO of Facebook, you're fundamentally not in control of, you know, how you appear in those pages, whether in the pages of New York Times, you know, if you're quoted, or, you know, whatever you publish to Facebook. And now with the internet, we can actually move beyond this to you know, what I'm what I'm calling decentralized media, essentially, a network of loosely cooperating personal media corporations, each of which control their own distribution, monetization and brand, staffed by citizen journalists equipped with decentralized factchecking. In a sense, you know, you can almost think this is just blogs 2.0. But with everything we've learned over the last 15 years, particularly how valuable user generated content can be, you know, everything we can do in terms of decentralized layers, and you know, which, which doesn't try to reinvent social media or legacy media as soon as they exist, and then builds on top of them. So I'm just in terms of some concepts. I'm going to build through this slide. But basically, if you say, legacy media, social media, decentralized media, what do I mean by the differences here? So first concept in terms of sovereignty, on you know, the New York Times has deployed access at ny times.com. at Twitter, you have kind of partial access at your username, but at username, calm, you have full root access,

Unknown Speaker  2:49  
second concept integration,

Unknown Speaker  2:51  
so um, likes me to just produce content, social media, really just thought of it as pure tech, you know, Zuckerberg used to refer to Facebook as a social utility on decentralized media combines content and tech. And that is to say it's opinionated in a way that, you know, Facebook or Twitter or what have you, these legacy platforms are really I shouldn't say legacy, let's say existing scale platforms, really were not set up to be factchecking. So legacy media does this at the corporate level. And you know, will, will usually not fact check itself it considers whatever it says itself to be true. Social media until very recently did no fact checking now it's gone, you know, arguably an arbitrary kind of factchecking decentralized media, everybody's fact checking each other I'll you know, describe some tools for this later on. But the crucial idea is that truth can't be centralized by its nature, a truth must be reproducible, independently reproducible. Fourth, concept monetization, legacy media, you know, simple, you pay them social media, you know, it's free to use and, you know, you can distribute through it, and they pay you a little and decentralized media, you own it all. You can make, you know, however much you want, you're in full control of your personal media Corporation. Just concept. So distribution. Well, you know, you're basically a letter to the editor and hope legacy media prints it or give a quote to them, social media, it's much more free, you know, you can post but you better abide by their terms of service, how are they currently interpret them? decentralized media is fully censorship resistant. The idea is that you own an email list, you own your own domain, you are sovereign from the beginning, not so much because of censorship, per se, because not that so much that that's going to hit you on a daily basis, but it's more control of distribution. And that's highly related to censorship, in the sense that, you know, for example, legacy media and social media are wrestling over, you know, just news appear in the feed, how much does it appear in the feed and so on, so forth. So censorship is sort of like the political version of it, but distribution is kind of the monetary or corporate version of it, how much you show up. Six concepts setup costs. So legacy media was once high it's now lower. It used to be you had to buy printing presses and so on. Now, it's relatively easy to set up like a you know, a new media Corporation on social media was wonderful. Now higher because the standards for minimum viable product have risen, essentially is mean, it would be very low, initially just a domain name. And I think we can, we can take it further

Unknown Speaker  5:09  
privacy.

Unknown Speaker  5:09  
So I'm mostly named authors and legacy media, social media, some pseudonymity legacy media full pseudonymity. And what I mean by this is social media, there's some folks who go by pseudonyms. With decentralized media, though you can have a private domain name, you can publish felici, obviously, you can take, you know, Satoshi level appsec, should you so choose, somebody actually did this for their analysis of whether the COVID-19 virus came from a Wu Han lab, and they published this on GitHub, and they did it, you know, fully sit on me. So it's a good example of decentralized media alignment. So legacy media, you know, they're aligned with the shareholders, employees of media corporations, just like social media is aligned with the shareholders of tech companies. And for you, if you're setting up your personal media Corporation, it's aligned with your shareholders. program building. So legacy media, closed API and scraping, you know, it's really not meant to be programmed against NY Times, for example, has an API, but you know, it's, it's really not something that you, you have some access to it. But to build a full company on top of it, you probably wouldn't be that easy. Social media is much more open API, lots of people write, you know, programs with, you know, Facebook login or twitter login. But famously, they've also used their platform in aggressive ways. And decentralized media would be a culture of fully open source. And, you know, using technologies like DNS, things like GitHub Pages are examples of this, I'll come back to more later. And finally, in terms of the general orientation is how I think folks should approach this legacy media is, you know, writing as a job, social media is writing as a hobby, and decentralized media is, you know, I think it was writing as a duty duty as a citizen, to get it out there on you, you may want to make some money, it's like a serious hobby. But that would be 1000. You know, citizen journalists making $100 or 100 citizen journalists making $1,000 versus one corporate journalist making $100,000 a year you basically decentralize it. Rather than have one generalist who doesn't really know anything in depth, you have, you know, ideally, a plumber who's writing, you have a delivery worker who's writing you have folks from many different professions who all have their own specific expertise. Okay, so that was a desired feature list, implementation will be discussed at the end, I want to go into a little more depth each of these features that we discussed. So, um, sovereignty, so as I mentioned, with decentralized media, you own the domain name on you know, Twitter, you can have your account suspended, you can be you know, like, like D prioritizing the feed, you have to pay them for ads on here, you can just get your own domain name, that's, that's kind of one of the things that are considered principle of decentralized media, you own your domain name, eventually, one DNS ipfs, stuff like that. integration. So um, you know, one of the concepts I think about when I think about decentralized media is full stack narrative, there's a great site called wistia.com, that gives an example of this, which is better better shown than told about, if you google 110 100, and watch this, it's essentially three videos, that, that go beyond content marketing, to essentially make wistia.com into something that's developing and shipping its own TV show. So that's, that's different than isolated blog posts, it's different than isolated tweets. That's a coherent story arc. And the idea is that we decentralize media, every company, a media company, if over the last 10 years, every company became a tech company, you know, whether you're in taxis or hotels, or have you got to become a tech company. Over the next 10 years, I think every company must become a media company, because otherwise they're not going to get their their own narrative out there. They're there to misaligned with legacy media corporations. And that means not just tweets and podcasts, but TV shows, interviews means the full gamut you're a media Corporation, that's actually a big part of your advertising budget, in a sense. Um, so next concept fact checking, you know, the, the old school way is something like PolitiFact, you know, or it's relatively new, but the concept is, you just trust a single entity, on you know, social media. Now, Twitter has been rolling this stuff out, like, you know, get the facts about COVID-19, tagging, misinformation. But decentralized media, there's a number of different approaches here. And that's, that's, that's a kind of a whole talk in its own right. But there's a great book called a truth machine by Michael Casey and Paul vigna, formerly the Wall Street Journal, that talks about the fact that Bitcoin is actually decentralized access to truth, in the sense of, you know, there's folks who share nothing in common. They're, you know, they're in Japan, they're in Brazil, they're in France, or in the US, they don't share common legal systems, they don't know each other. They don't share a common language, anything like that, but they do all agree on the state of the Bitcoin blockchain. And that's a very important concept of decentralized truth. And it potentially can be extended with things like Oracle's for example. So that's something I'm very interested in, is using computer science and explicit preferences essentially allow people to fact check in a decentralized way so you don't just Let it be a complete free for all with no objective truth. Um, but you start to think, Okay, how far can we push decentralized consensus? Maybe it's only within a group. But How big can we make that group?

Unknown Speaker  10:11  
Okay, monetization. Um, so, you know, subjects a major part of this, you know, like, basically, you start to think of your writing as something that's revenue generating. And it's not even really, you know, for some people, they would try to do this as a profession, of course, and that's fine, more power to them. But, you know, just allowing folks to make, you know, a few hundred or a few thousand dollars a year to spread it out more, um, you know, it may be that not everybody has, you know, 50 or 100 essays in them a year. But if you have two or three based on your own unique experience, um, if you could get paid for that, that'd be really great for a lot of people, that'd be, you know, a nice, maybe it's, it's a computer or it's an iPad, or something like that, it's the encouragement to get citizens to do something more than it is, you know, like monetization, like, like, just for a big corporation. And one way of thinking about this is, a lot of the money has gone out of media. And so a lot of folks in media have to either have trust funds, or they have to have, you know, wealthy spouses, or, you know, mom and dad or paying for their apartment or supporting them, that's kind of like an open secret within legacy media. And, you know, maybe the news Trust Fund is a full time job, in the sense of, you're a chemical engineer, okay? You're, you're somebody who works in design, or architecture or something like that. And you know, something about a topic area, and you write about it, and you're doing it, because it's your duty to inform the public, you're not doing it, because you're trying to maximize clicks alone, you're doing it because it's your duty. next concept distribution. So, um, you know, as I mentioned, you know, substack is good for monetization, it's also good for distribution, those go hand in hand, actually, you basically get your own email list, you're not subject to just having followers that you can't directly reach without the consent of Twitter or Facebook, people actually, they'll often mistake this, they think, oh, what's important at Twitter, or Facebook is your data, actually, it's pretty easy to export your data, the heart, the important thing that Twitter or Facebook have, is your access to their social graph. That is to say, you know, whatever followers you had, you can't, you cannot contact them without the consent of Twitter or Facebook. And that's actually the important part which which getting your own email list gives you. So next concept of setup costs, you know, again, domain names have become very cheap. And, you know, when when we think about this, in a sense, I'm just talking about setting up a, you know, a blog for each person. But I think we can do way better than the old age of blogs now that it's like 1520 years later, there's things we can do with DNS, that are in between a full index like Google, of every site, and a full hosting thing like Facebook, if you had a network of sites that all had the same technology, they could have sovereignty with some degree of cooperation on and I think, I think there's something there. So privacy, you know, so this basically is, you know, if you want to be Satoshi if you want to publish something that's really important, you know, that the traditional way of doing it is, if you're, you know, like deep throat going and talking to Woodward and Bernstein or your Snowden, you need to go through and existing, you know, legacy media outlet. Now increasingly, things like the the analysis of the Wu Han virus that I mentioned before, that that just got posted to to social media. But the ultimate is, you know, decentralized media where, and the cod virus analysis is another example of this, where you post it to your own site. And now the source can just speak for themselves, they don't need to be mediated, they can say things in their own words, you don't need to trust a reporter to protect their privacy. You know, there's an example A few years ago, where there was a source, you spoke to the intercept, and it got leaked somehow, and then that source was, was jailed. And so it doesn't even need to be that, you know, the journalist would would mess it up on purpose, it would just be something where, you know, you've just got two people who can screw up rather than one person. So if you want to Toshi level appsec. It's really sensitive and important information, decentralized media may be superior their alignment. So again, an obvious one, on you know, the New York Times is a company, it's a corporation, it's got proxy statements, it's worth reading their financials, just like it's worth reading Facebook's financials, ultimately, they have responsibility, first and foremost, to their employees and shareholders, which is completely reasonable. If you have your own personal media Corporation, you're responsible to your shareholders, who can be whoever you want, it can be your friends, it could be your co workers, it could be your colleagues can be other people in your industry, you can slice and dice that that cap table if you decide to take outside investment or work, do whatever you want

Unknown Speaker  14:39  
with it. programmability Um, so you know, I think GitHub Pages and Creative Commons are sort of in the spirit of what I'm thinking here, GitHub Pages, your your back end is open source. That's to say your your back end is a git repository. It's not a CMS in the traditional way. It's something that's on GitHub and you can export it anytime and that Combined with Creative Commons, well, what if we actually had a new not media company, but a new media community, we're all content by default was open source that would allow for natural language processing that would allow for, for scraping for integration for named entity recognition for lots of interesting things. And I think we're really just at the beginning of something where all content will be open source, and you might monetize another aspect of it. And finally, duty, you know, citizen journalism, if you if you go and Google it, it is it is a term, it's in the dictionary, the collection dissemination analysis of news and information, but the general public, especially by means of the internet, so so it's out there, it's an important concept. And I think, you know, more and more, we're finding that, um, you know, unless you yourself go and participate in the news gathering process, you don't really have the ability to discern what is true and what is not for decisions that could significantly impact your health, like something like COVID-19, or something like, you know, civil unrest. So that's writing his duty. So, in terms of implementation, you know, these are concepts. This is like a vector for, you know, for what decentralized media is, and could be parts of these pieces of this have been implemented, but not all of it in in kind of one package. So what do I mean by by pieces, for example, blogs, of course, had independent domain names, you know, they've been around for a long time. 20 plus years. substack has the email list monetization, very important components on stripe Atlas has incorporation yc, seed funding, GitHub Pages, open source content on all existing legacy media is content for critique on all existing social media, you don't have to give it up. Those would be tools that you use to generate content to distribute to to find influencers for your personal media Corporation, which of course you can use to employ others. And then finally, a crypto I think, will be an important component. This is one that really hasn't been rolled out yet, trip to first repayments simply to pay people in any in any country or take them to any country. And then eventually, hopefully, for truth in the sense of big Dan Casey's truth machine, so no, this is a list of technologies. This is it's something where all the pieces haven't come together yet. But this is directionally have been thinking about decentralized media. So thank you very much. And follow me on Twitter or DM me, if you have any questions or comments or critiques. Thank you. Wow, incredibly insightful. And I think, you know, one of the things Balaji that you you touched on that I felt instinctively for a while. And I'm almost embarrassed that I've not been able to put words to it given I used to run Coyne desk. And now, you know, running another information business. But the concept of every company being a media company, much like every company became a tech company. Yeah. And and I guess, the the, what do you think the biggest shot, you laid out a lot of variables? To what this could look like? What do you think the biggest zero to one challenges in taking the next step in terms of evolving everybody to citizen journalists and decentralized media, because there are some structural impediments, I think, that are larger than others, although a lot of them have been eroding over the last few years, and this year at a hyper accelerated pace.

Unknown Speaker  18:13  
So I actually don't think there's any major structural impediments, I think it's just a function of execution, you know, what I'd like to do to start is basically just get a community of, you know, 110 100, folks who basically just set up their own blogs, on the technology stack is important, that's something I've been thinking a lot about, essentially, the ideal would be at once something just get a little technical, like that has the the usability and something like ghost ghost org, on but that has an open source back end, like GitHub Pages, you might decide to just go with GitHub Pages, you know, for now to start on, but it's not quite as full featured as go. So that's something you know, just from a technical sample to be thinking about. But then the idea would be you get, you know, 110 100 you know, folks setting up blogs, and then something that really hasn't been done is to think about whether you can network between them in a more sophisticated way than simply links on and, you know, for example, in DNS, you can write txt records. You can you can do things with DNS, you can also use other layers, obviously, like, you know, blockchain or crypto layers. What I don't think people have really thought about is how to take websites and organize them in any way other than an index. You know, like, maybe you can make hierarchies or rings or topologies of websites, where each individual proprietor is, is sovereign, but they decide to cooperate. Um, you know, for example, you could structure them in a hierarchy where there's a top level, you know, index and then it's got three categories underneath for bio and crypto. And then each one is actually pulling from an RSS feed of a biocide, a crypto site and so on that are dedicated, and it gets kind of mash up like that. So I think that's kind of an interesting concept like a topology of websites has hasn't really been done yet to my knowledge. Um, so that's that's kind of something I've been thinking about.

Unknown Speaker  20:06  
Perfect.

Unknown Speaker  20:08  
Well Balaji thank you so much for for doing it for this presentation. hope, hope you're able to hang out and I'm sure some people might have questions in the chat but appreciate you taking the time and we're excited to see what comes next.

Unknown Speaker  20:21  
Great and follow me on Twitter and DM me if you have any questions. Thanks, everybody. Thank you

Transcribed by https://otter.ai
