Unknown Speaker  0:11  
Hey everybody, I'm Eric torver, co founder partner village global, network driven venture firm. And this is an episode of venture stories where we deep dive topics relating to technology business. So the world's leading experts. This episode is about crypto currencies is met with one of the most dynamic thinkers in the space Balaji Srinivasan founder of burn calm, formally 21 and partner at Andreessen Horowitz. We talk about how blockchain will change every industry, from journalism,

Unknown Speaker  0:43  
to health

Unknown Speaker  0:44  
care, to talk about identity talk about China about how cryptocurrencies will change society in ways we can't even cover today.

Unknown Speaker  1:07  
You know, Paul Graham has this essay, Jessica Livingston essays are the sound of silence, but you can't say, and it's sort of echoes this dilemma that as you get more successful, you have more to say, but then you also become a target. So you lose incentive to, you know, contribute to the conversation, and discourse suffers as a result. What do you think about this?

Unknown Speaker  1:26  
Um, I think going Satoshi is a more and more interesting idea, and will be something that becomes more common in the future. That, you know, Satoshi is the first synonymous billionaire, but he won't be the last, the way to think about that, I think is the whole concept of a real name is a social construct, even the term real name is actually stealing a ton of basis. And just to explain what I mean by that, if you go to South America, the folks there their real names aren't actually, you know, Hernandez and Santiago, and so on. Those are names that were imposed on them by, you know, Spanish colonists who, you know, came and, you know, imposes games. But even actually, if you go to Europe, or what have you, the whole first name, last name, paradigm, you know, people think of this a real name as, as an other names or fake names, but it used to be that you use whatever name you wanted, in whatever village you were going to, and you could reboot with a new name and a new village, sort of like how on the internet, you know, use this pseudonym on Reddit, and this pseudonym on Twitter. And if you want to reveal all of your identity, and give a single identity that links all these different accounts, you can, or you can use a pseudonym here, another student in there, and you can basically compartmentalize, and that's how it used to be. And in fact, in like European and Indian and Chinese culture, knowing the real name of something is to have power over it. So the very concept of a real name is really like a unique identifier, we can pull all this information on somebody. And what was awesome about what Satoshi did is, by using a pseudonym on he made sure that the discussion focused on the technology and the ideas put out there, and basically completely eliminated an entire class of, you know, ad hominem attacks, for more than just, you know, attacks against a person, verbally, he eliminated a whole class of attacks on his life, liberty and property, simply by putting an idea out there, you know, he could have invited all kinds of reprisals. But he was smart enough, and he practice impeccable operational security. And those reprisals

Unknown Speaker  3:31  
did not happen. What needs to happen for what you described to become mainstream,

Unknown Speaker  3:37  
part of what needs to happen is millions and millions of people need to onboard into and become comfortable with holding digital currency. And the reason for that is, if you hold digital currency, whether it's Bitcoin or aetherium, or an ERC 20 based token, like, like what we're doing, then you have a private key, where you have an incentive to keep it private, namely, if it's revealed and your digital currency is gone, that actually solves a big problem in cryptography, which is, you know, the public key distribution problem. Now, your public key is something which is intimately related to the wallet and you know, you've kept your private, you know, it's valuable, you know, it exists because you don't want to lose your 500 bucks, or whatever it is. And now, you can actually have a valuable pseudonym. That is to say, it's not just a cast off, you're signing messages from a digital currency address that contains $1,000, or the equivalent, so people know that you're not a drinker, that it's not a, you know, total cast off that has one cent to the name of it, but they also know exactly who you are. And so it's a good and new intermediate between nmt or a low value pseudonym, versus your full real name. One way of thinking about it is, if your bank account is your store wealth, your real name is your stored reputation. And what digital currency will unlock is the ability to have intermediate It's where you don't need to wager your entire bank account or your entire real name on something, you can just wager the reputation of a pseudonym on something,

Unknown Speaker  5:07  
let's play this out for a second, because mark and others have comprehensive identities. Now, they have a big following, like in a new world with Mark have one identity to talk about non controversial stuff that he wants to push forward and another identity to like, really sort of engage the debates that, you know, you couldn't under that, like, what would that look like?

Unknown Speaker  5:25  
Yeah, obviously, the downside is you lose the platform that you've built your whole life. On the other hand, it's it's surprising how quickly you can ascend to the top of something, if you're a relatively, you know, hard working person, it's definitely a cost. The cost is that you can't deploy that yours and the platform you built, the benefit is that you weren't off this entire set of reprisals. And the idea is to just engage on their own merits

Unknown Speaker  5:51  
21 of the social network, b2b social network, how do you think about identity and the construct of your social network? and reconcile it with with what we've just been talking about?

Unknown Speaker  6:00  
Yeah, very good question. So I am a pragmatic idealogue in the sense that I have long term goals. But I'm also pragmatist in the short and medium, and even frankly, long term. And so where I look at is, I'm willing to make a bunch of short term sacrifices in order to get hopefully 10s of millions of people into digital currency. And then, you know, hundreds of millions and so on, if we're very fortunate. What that means is that the bootstrapping phase, we do ask people, at least initially for a lot of verification information, because if you're giving out and this is kind of overdone with the token, I can talk about that, if you're giving out free money to people, you need to have some deed in front of that. And that could be, you know, computation, which is the gate that Satoshi put in front of it. It could be cap, which is the gate that the Ethereum initial Ethereum, Ico and other Icos have put in front of it, you need to invest capital to get these tokens and we put labor and verification as a key, you have to come to the tobacco token site, or the social token comm site, you have to sign up, get verified, you have to do labor to get these tokens. And so that's a game that we've got. And in order to prevent people from signing up with 100 accounts and getting the tokens that way, we do require verification, you know, we do require your state of signed real name, we do require your phone, all this type stuff. So you might say, Well, isn't that critical? If you think you know that this is where the future is going to be? Well, no, because as I said, I'm willing to compromise. And in return for you, you know, using this as a transitional state, putting in your real name and all this other stuff, we know you're not going to be abusive. And so you can get this digital currency, you can get on boarded. And then of course, you can go and ship ship that into sea cash, and then you're on your way, you have this, this tweet storm,

Unknown Speaker  7:44  
you know, while ago is the goal to solve problems or to try to solve problems, healthcare verse, life extension, higher ed verse direct brain machine interface. Yep. How does that relate to the idea of like, a transitional state till the end state?

Unknown Speaker  7:57  
Well, yeah, like, you know, for example, what is the purpose of healthcare? If you argue it is, you know, life extension, indefinite life extension? That's actually, you know, arguably solving the problem, um, in the sense of everything else, just prolonging death? Okay. Well, you know, that's not usually how people think about it, like, okay, you'll die a year later. Yeah, we've got great health care system, you know, so are you actually punching through or actually trying to solve the problem? Another example is like education. You know, if you think of it as what is the ideal education, ideal education is, like the scene from the matrix. And then none were counter Reeves has all the information downloaded into the brain, it just opens up size is like, I know karate, right? Right. That's the ideal education where you can just, you know, click a button, and the software is installed mental software's installed into your head. And now you know, Japanese, you know, karate, whatever, right. And so, if you think about what like a problem solution would look like, versus our current very inefficient means of getting there, it's kind of the difference between, you know, a handcrafted wooden chair, which is cute, versus, you know, mass production, automation of, you know, thousands, millions of chairs, which can be done very low cost, very high consistency, and so on. Right. And so that's the kind of thing I like to think about,

Unknown Speaker  9:14  
talk more about what you're doing with the token, because I think it sort of maps your sort of philosophical belief that it's easier for people to believe things are true when they're economically incentivized to do so. Which I think is an Upton Sinclair idea as well.

Unknown Speaker  9:26  
Yeah, that's right. I think Upton Sinclair phrased it as it's very difficult for a man to understand something when his livelihood depends upon not understanding and right. Yeah. And I think that's absolutely true. And in fact, it's a very small, very small class of people who can believe something is true, even if it's economically disadvantages for them in the short run, to accept that truth. Now, those folks are very precious folks. And if you know them, you should, you know, hopefully, they're also really reasonable, and, you know, nice people or whatever, but they kind of you know, and the reason I add that caveat is if you're willing to believe things that are very unconventional, often that correlates with a lot of other unconventionality. And often those people can be disagreeable personally. But for those who are, you know, let's say iconoclast, in their thinking, but reasonable in their behavior towards others, those are very valuable people. Because, um, you know, hopefully, we can, you know, help drive society forward, they can think about things, despite the social penalty for thinking about something that is currently unpopular. And, um, you know, the good thing about starts great thing about technology is, you know, it's a vehicle for turning an unpopular thesis about the world into something that goes from, you know, point or 1% of people who believe in it. 2.1% and 1% and 30% and 50%. And then 99%. Right, on, like, you know, how many folks have now, you know, use the internet, how many folks have used Google have used Facebook, I've used iPhone, have used Twitter, frankly, which seemed like an incredibly stupid idea when it when it first started, right, have used Bitcoin, you know, again, 10s of millions, it's now you know, like a pretty big deal. So and it was Mark still marks people, so called a Ponzi in a bubble, MCI and fraud, etc. And so the thing about that is, you know, economics aren't, it's not so much an end in its own right, as it is a score that you can point to, that everybody just kind of has to respect, right? You may not respect the coin, but you have to respect 100 billion dollars. That's right. That's something real,

Unknown Speaker  11:34  
your main goals with with 21? is to make your Bitcoin blockchain and digital currencies, a mainstream application, correct?

Unknown Speaker  11:43  
Yeah. to mainstream digital currency? Yes,

Unknown Speaker  11:45  
I want to understand more about what the future will look like, when that is mainstream. So I want to name a sector and ask you to give me sort of a 32nd to a minute, just picture or even one application in that field where you think digital currencies will make a big splash Sound good?

Unknown Speaker  12:01  
Sure. Awesome.

Unknown Speaker  12:02  
But first, we talked a little bit a little bit, but just media journalism.

Unknown Speaker  12:07  
I think prediction markets will be a very big thing here. Because one of the biggest problems that we have now. So Twitter is a great example of this is you have, you know, these are filter bubbles. And there's a strong disincentive for speaking a truth that your tribe thinks of as unpopular, right? And so because of that, there's actually an incentive to distort and to amplify those things that cause embarrassment for the other group and to kind of, you know, just pass over in silence those things that cause embarrassment for one's own group. If the search tampers, the cattle bystanders, you know, apprehension of reality. And so, you know, the way that you get an incentive for truth is, frankly, to introduce incentives. I mean, these great experiments by behavioral economists, where partisanship gets reduced by the introduction of an incentive. So if you've got, you know, Republicans, and you ask them a question that's going to produce a predictable republican response, or Democrats, and they get a question that will produce a predictable partisan democrat response, and you give them like, you know, $1, or $10, if they get the, let's say, the neutral response, or what have you tell them upfront, okay? If you get the right answer, then you get 10 bucks, their behavior suddenly changes, and rather than just saying, Oh, yeah, the W m DS were found in Iraq or whatever. They say, Well, actually, you know, maybe not right. You know, it's basically you don't tell them what the right answer is, you just say, Hey, I'll give you 10 bucks, if you get the answer that, you know, is probably technically accurate, has the most factual backing behind it. So, you know, another example of that is that, you know, people may have various kinds of, you know, religious beliefs or what have you, but, you know, when it comes to fly a plane, um, they're going to be trusting in, you know, aerospace engineering and whatnot, rather, they're not going to be too out there in terms of what to think whether there's actually scientific ground truth. So it's because they have an incentive to stay alive, right. You know, on the ground, though, financial incentives, I think micro incentives, or even macro incentives to get something true rather than popular prediction markets could with digital currency, give a micro incentive for people to accurately gauge what happened versus what was reported? And I think that would be a very big deal. If If 10s of thousands people had digital currency and concert wagering on is this article true or not to this fact actually having

Unknown Speaker  14:32  
one criticism is micropayments broadly has been that people feel it's too cognitively intensive for people to think about oh my god, am I paying a cent right that here is that criticism is unfounded.

Unknown Speaker  14:43  
So I think there's definitely something to that. But I also think that that can be overcome example, you know, with iTunes, and you know, the App Store. Apple has basically solved the cognitive overhead of you know, micro payments by just storing your credit card and making it as easy as possible. click a button app, Touch ID and then you'll pay, right. And you just pay a lot more because it's actually not that much of an overhead. On that's not really, really micro. That's not like one cent and fractions of a cent. But that's certainly something. And I think another big step is if you are just, you know, you have machines, or you have yourself and you're passively earning digital currency all the time, then you may just not care about it that much. It's kind of same way that you don't care too much about the storage on your computer, except if you run out if your computer keeps replenishing digital currency, because it's what's it's renting out storage via, you know, the file coin network, or it's, you know, on routing things via mysterium. For VPN, it's earning digital currency. So then, you know, yeah, okay, maybe it's also spending digital currency to buy things, but you'll only really notice if the outflow is greater than the inflow, then you could top it up in other ways, right? So that that's at least two ways in which you can reduce mental transaction costs. The first is with the stored information, the way that like iTunes is doing it in the second is, if your computer or if you are just casually earning digital currency all the time, then you're more free with just letting it happen. You don't really need to account for it too much.

Unknown Speaker  16:04  
How does healthcare change in the world digital currencies mainstream,

Unknown Speaker  16:08  
I definitely don't think that's like something that's going to be changed by it in the next year, probably not within five, maybe within under 10, maybe five to 10 at the very earliest, because you need to have big, you know, production success stories, totally scaled out, totally accepted, you know, etc, with just the pure technology itself before you start doing, you know, one bleeding edge to technology plus another right. So like blockchain plus, let's say genomics is just, you know, two bridges too far, you know, I mean, each of those has to kind of work on so on. With that said, much of that area is so you know, the data there, whether it's medical records, or read genomic data, or it's quantified self data, etc. It's medical. So it's private, but it's statistical. So it requires aggregation. And so there's a contradiction there between something that's private. And that requires aggregation to understand. So how do you do private aggregations? And one possible way you could do that is if you had data local computing, where people had, you know, the canonical copy of their data, their quantified self measurements, or their genome sequence or medical records, and they had it locally. But, you know, they could rent out access to it on for digital currency. So they gave out consent, and they got a cut, in return for renting out access, and something like that, you know, there's a bunch of things are trending right now. Um, you know, token base models. So it's kind of thing that I think, you know, crypto would do is it would give incentives for people to share, previously private, you know, confidential,

Unknown Speaker  17:36  
what about finance is, is Wall Street as we know it, Dawn within the next five to 10 years are totally, you know,

Unknown Speaker  17:42  
well, I mean, so I had a quote on CNBC, where basically, you know, subject to the evolution of regulations, it's not going to be an immediate overnight thing, you know, the regulatory framework will detour. Okay, there's going to be some work on that front subject to that important proviso. Yeah, the internet does become the world's biggest stock market, in the sense that, you know, some kid in Mongolia can go and take 10 bucks worth of their local currency and, you know, buy some aetherium or Ico or what have you, right? And, and, you know, if they're good, they can come next, Warren Buffett. And that's really awesome. Because, you know, the internet, we've been able to pluck all this programming talent, and all of this writing out of nowhere and start plucking investing talent, and folks from the middle of nowhere, can you know, if they're smart, and they're risk tolerant, they can actually get rich, which is awesome. I think that's like, you know, a huge next step. And in addition to that, of course, like many, many, many, many business models and top are just predicated on being, you know, basically the the gatekeepers or the or the toll keepers, right, the trolls on the route, which take a fee every time you pass it on, but they don't really arguably add that much value in the internet age, just that they have certain licenses or certain, you know, like legacy kinds of deals, and you can route around them simply new payment rail with the blockchain. Wow, you know, it's not obvious why they continue to exist. And I met a bunch of guys that, you know, Visa, MasterCard, and, you know, places like Western Union back in 2013. And the other ones could see all the writing's on the wall. And they just, you know, I said, you know, said, What do I do? And I said, Well, you know, if you're a family man or a family woman, you know, and you've got a job there and so on, you know, we might consider doing is just diversifying and putting some of that, you know, ensure that you have institutional current income, ie your kicking attitude, you have your current job, if thing goes up, then you know, you've protected yourself and if it goes down, then no problem. You've got your current job. And they did that. Well, folks, thanks me. So, you know, whatever. Like, I'm not getting I'm not getting any investment device here. But you know, just like I said, if you want to do that, that's one possible strategy. So But yeah, I think I think that with finance, every single aspect of finance has been to be taken apart by blockchain and reconstituted, and many of the business models are currently exist. But it's not a one year thing. It's not to your thing. It's a multi year thing. Probably the close analogy would be, you know, what the internet did to, you know, newspapers and media and so on. But blockchains couldn't do to finance, it's not going to end it. I mean, NYT and Wall Street Journal and so on, they're still around. I believe that, you know, Goldman and Morgan and Citi and Wells Fargo are gonna be around for a while. Um, but, you know, the New York Times as an informational institution is not as significant as a

Unknown Speaker  20:23  
hub of venture capital. Do you think it's similar, where like Sequoia Andreessen, the bats are still around, but the majority are gone,

Unknown Speaker  20:30  
you know, so the rise of angels incubators salon to not lead to the demise of VC, you know, so so I don't think like, you know, it's gonna die overnight or anything like that, I think the best of these DS, so be thinking about Sarah and planning for this since since 2013. And so even earlier, actually, Calacanis you know, I gotta say, wrote one of the first and best essays on cryptocurrency in early 2011, when the very, very, very first in the space to really get it on. And so, you know, the smartest folks have been thinking about this for a while. So it's not like 2017 is some, you know, incredible change. For us. It's, it's more of a vindication of things we've all been thinking about, like, we talked to LPs and, you know, LPs understand that, that crypto is a big thing. And so I think like smash VCs will definitely be able to, but it will definitely change certain things, for example, like proprietary deal flow becomes less and less of the thing is, you know, everybody on the internet can, can buy your, you know, digital cook, right? And, you know, value add has to become really real, because if you can raise a million dollars online from people, well, then, you know, the guy saying, Okay, I'm getting dollars and be very helpful. Well, you can now actually truly calibrate that. Right, right. In many cases, the most successful Icos or kryptos have, you know, top fees, and folks from the, you know, previous institutions associated with them. I remember we sat

Unknown Speaker  21:55  
down, you know, almost a year ago at this point, and I was telling you that, that we were raising a fund, and you sort of deadpan said, you know, put it all on Icos, I was like, do you still feel that way? In terms of from an investing lens?

Unknown Speaker  22:07  
Yeah, so I want to stress I'm not giving any investment advice, but PEGI done what I kind of have joked about last year, you were doing pretty well. Yeah. Well, I mean, you know, to be very clear, like, you know, there's obviously a lot of Icos out there, and a lot of coins a lot tokens and token madness and whatnot. I definitely wouldn't say like, everything out there is good or buy everything or anything like that. On, I'm relatively conservative, crypto investor. Sounds paradoxical. But, you know, I look for things that actually have, you know, very strong teams and technology. And so, you know, things I'd like so obviously, Bitcoin aetherium, z cash, tezos, filecoin, you know, brave and civic, and, you know, a few others that are at that level where I think, you know, I know the folks, I respect the teams, I think they're smart, they're hard working, they may or may not be successful, but they actually have a shot at it. They're definitely not scams or anything like that, right. And I also think that, you know, what we're doing is a new take on it, but we don't have to risk any capital, you can just go and sign up and get tokens, and that's yet another take on it. Right? Right. Any any new technology, there's often a you know, Gartner hype cycle, like surge into bitcoin. And blockchain has been through like three or four of these, and there's a bunch of folks who get excited about it. And that's good because it pulls people in and made the projects end up not being successful, but fine, because the capital and energy tension that came in but keeps people and then they just, you know, pursue and it's good, right? And so like, you know, for the.com bubble, yes, we had lots of failures, we had web end, but we got Amazon and right. We have pets calm. We've got Google. Yeah. So you know, and one Google one, Daniel revenue is more than all the you know.com Vc investments put together definitely paid for itself in that very macro sense.

Unknown Speaker  23:48  
I'm curious, I mean, you're such a, you know, a champion for digital currencies, what, what would need to be true for you to change your mind?

Unknown Speaker  23:56  
Well, if quantum cryptography got better at the attacks, so quantum decryption is probably the biggest threat I could see. I know that sounds like kind of out of left field. But essentially, security of cryptocurrencies is based on the idea that hashing is, is to say, like, it's difficult to invert a hash function. And that's, that's the whole premise of it. If, you know, it turned out that, you know, quantum cryptography and quantum decryption advanced faster than quantum encryption, or is only a few state based actors had access to quantum decryption first, and they could decrypt, you know, accounts on the blockchain, and they could just move money around and so on and so forth. Then, basically, I would consider digital currency to have serious problems until quantum encryption became widespread, if ever, right. So that's probably the single biggest wildcard I would say on the horizon right now.

Unknown Speaker  24:50  
I'm curious if I'll frame the question by by using analogy, if Peter teal, if utopia for teal is something like you know, just heavy technological progress, you know, You carry all diseases, radical life extension that's utopian for him. What is utopia look like for you in a world where digital currencies are mainstream? But what are the most exciting implications of that?

Unknown Speaker  25:12  
Yeah, so I agree with a lot of those things I support, you know, I'm not against cheering all diseases and, you know, robotics and radical life extension, especially, I would add to that, that I'm, I'm very interested at least in global equality of opportunity, and, you know, developers of the developing world and trying to, you know, get all these billions of people who were basically left out of economic growth in the 20th century, because, you know, India was socialist, and China was actually communist, and Russia was communist, and Eastern Europe is communist and Vietnamese communist. And, you know, Iran was, you know, mired in religious fundamentalism, and so on, and so forth. All these places outside of the US and Western Europe, were just mired economically. And it's very important to me, and something I think about a lot is how do we get the really smart, hard working, you know, brilliant people into the global economy and on, you know, distribute in a real sense of future to them as well. So, you know, I'd add, you know, yes, take all the stuff that Peter's got, then figure out how we can bring these folks in there and have like, a, use technology as big, not for redistribution in the typical sense, not taking wealth from one person and giving it to another not as your some kind of game, but a positive sum game where we can bring these folks in and everybody can benefit.

Unknown Speaker  26:24  
Yeah, segues into, let's talk about how, how digital currency is going to change sort of politics and government.

Unknown Speaker  26:30  
You know, I think the thesis of the sovereign individuals a really, really good one, you know, the sovereign individual thesis is that, you know, we are at the transition of an age where, in the Middle Ages during the transition from, you know, the church state, like, there's a period where the Catholic Church was just so predominant, and everything and everything was about, you know, the feast days, you know, the power and the tides, the church and indulgences, and, and, and everything was determined in terms of religious ritual, and, and so on. And that's kind of where we are today with politics, where, just because of the way that voting works, and whatnot, everybody's forced to basically buy all of their policies in one or two helpings. It's kind of like, imagine if with food, there are two stores, you could go to, you know, choice number one is, you could buy the menu. And menu number one was Coca Cola, plus hotdogs, plus, you know, ice cream, plus, you know, lettuce plus, whatever. And menu number two was Pepsi Plus, you know, chicken plus, whatever, right? There's only two choices. And if you, like, ate some food that was kind of from the other person's menu, then some of the folks if if too many of the choices of the folks who are the first group would yell at you and screaming here, right. And that's kind of what you know, politics is today is because of how you know, like, American first past, the post works. And, you know, just the nature of the state itself, is forced people into these sort of artificial tribes where gun rights and abortion rights and tax rates and all this type of stuff just gets piled up on top of each other. Instead, you know, that I think about a lot is okay, let's keep that system intact, do not try to change or reform it or what have you. There's lots of folks that are working on that, let them work fine. Instead, let's look for different kinds of things and run things I think a lot about is migration as a compliment to election. And one way to think about this is, you know, yes, United States is a nation of immigrants on Mmm, it are amts. But it's also a nation of immigrants, EMI, gr, NTS. And top right, because total logically, every immigrant is an immigrant, they're immigrating from somewhere. And I think if you take that perspective, that's a very different take on the US where all these folks who are here, modular, of course, Native Americans, and you know, many African Americans, modula, that many of the folks who are here are here by choice, certainly, you know, the folks starting in the late 1800s. If you say your nation of immigrants, and man, those folks came here by choice, they came here, you know, for a better economic life. But that means in part that the life at home wasn't as great. And so what is really interesting is due to search engines, and due to social networks due to mobile and digital digital currency, it's going to be more and more and more feasible to just relocate and have the same standard of living that you did in your previous location. Because mobile is making us more mobile, it's becoming cheaper and cheaper to change your x y location. Right. Right. And so because law is a function of latitude longitude, because law is a function of your x&y location, in the sense that you've got local and then state and federal laws, and as you change your x&y, you change those kind of map overlays. It is becoming cheaper to change your location, change your x&y, and if law is a function of x and y, it's becoming cheaper to change the law under which you live by migrating and I think that's like a completely new way of thinking about Okay, how Do I change the law under which I live option one migration, or rather option one election, option two migration, both legitimate options unless you're saying immigrations illegitimate, which I don't think people, right. But the second one is a very new kind of filter because it can happen outside election cycle, it can happen as an individual. And it frankly can happen without making such a huge fuss about it and yelling at your neighbor. And so it's over, you just go and do it, you know, you don't go and have to yell your neighbor and enter into coalition with him or her determine whether you're going to buy Pepsi today, or what have you use as for your preferences, they satisfy theirs. And you know, everybody goes about their business, right? I think that starts to get interesting, where you start to have more and more realms of life that are outside of politics and outside of this kind of tribal behavior,

Unknown Speaker  30:41  
right. But so we have the technology to do this, right? What's going to make that major mainstream behavior.

Unknown Speaker  30:48  
I think it's one of those ideas whose time come, I think digital currency may be one of the last pieces, if we're successful, what we're doing, will get millions of people exposed not just to digital currency, but from the idea of earning money from anywhere, it's still not yet at the point where I can move to new city, open up, you know, an app, scroll through hit buttons and make money. It's getting there, you know, there's, there's various kinds of, you know, services, I think, Upwork, and so on and so forth. But it's not yet like extremely deterministic. It's like, you know, if you're an Uber driver, you can just go to a new city, open up the app and just immediately start getting rides, right, like the job is there for you. Higher skilled work has not yet gotten there. But I think once it does, that will radically reduce the barrier Texan

Unknown Speaker  31:36  
somewhat related politics, government man, you had this tweet storm about it not being about left and right anymore, but more about use of national globalism, and we sort of have echoes of that a smaller scale, but like, you know, what Steve Bannon represents? The National side, maybe would like Jared Kushner, or Gary Cohen represents the global side, you're talking to you, like on another level of abstraction sort of cloud verse land? Explain this theory more?

Unknown Speaker  31:59  
Sure. Sure. Sure. You know, yeah, there's some talk about like, nationalist, globalist, and so on, and Bannon and Kushner and what the distinction is between those people who are fundamentally willing to emigrate, willing to move, not that concerned about the physical environment around them, you know, mostly live on their laptop, mostly live, you know, with their friends in a social network, you know, as long as the city that they're living in has these communities, and, you know, it's got a gym, and, you know, it's not, you know, super high crime, or what have you are pretty much, you know, comfortable anyplace in the world, right. And that actually describes a lot of people who are knowledge workers or people in tech, if, you know, you derive satisfaction from, you know, intellectual pursuits, and books and games, and, you know, online stuff, you know, that's, you know, that's a good chunk of people. Now, obviously, if you love, you know, the Louvre or, you know, you really like, you must be near some certain link or some fiscal, you know, feature that doesn't describe you, right. But I think a larger and larger percentage of people basically are spending more and more time online, the more time you spend online, the less relevant the physical location around them comes. And I'd say, within five years or so, you know, people, you know, listening to this podcast might think, Okay, how much time you spend looking at a screen. And so a laptop and a mobile phone or a tablet, and for many folks I talk to, that's north of 50% of their waking hours. But in about five ish years, probably 50% of your waking hours are going to be spent with a VR headset on. So most of your life will be spent your waking hours we spent in the matrix, and then like where you live, it doesn't matter as much, right. So because of that, if you know, the spot that you live doesn't matter as much, then you become much more flexible in it. And that means that the land has less bargaining power, because it doesn't have as much for since you know, here, or Thailand, or Vietnam, or, you know, South Korea or, you know, Brazil, whatever. As long as the sector has a pretty good internet connection, and pretty good food and whatnot. There's a much, much, much wider set of nice places to live, it's very different than even 25 years ago, because, you know, the world is just coming out of the Cold War. And, you know, you had in China, India are much, much poorer than they are today. And Russia and Eastern Europe are way, way, way poor. And so like the rest of world has really grown up very fast. And it's been under recorded and, you know, I'd say Western media, and now that they've got telephones, and you know, cell phones and satellite internet and whatnot, they're more livable, that's a huge factor that is reducing the bargaining power of land relative to these folks who are called Cloud, which are the transnational, you know, programmer, you know, Atlas types.

Unknown Speaker  34:35  
No, I don't want to oversimplify, but sort of implicit in that, in that belief is sort of a belief that lack of regulation and decentralization leads to more progress and innovation. So how do you think of China in this theory?

Unknown Speaker  34:48  
Very good question. You know, I see that any classification scheme is going to have, you know, its proper term contradictions, or, you know, there's Santa thesis and you get Right. And China, yes, absolutely a very, you know, state run economy in many ways. in other ways, it's just much less regulated than that states. And so some examples of that if, if you go and look at the buildings that they've built on YouTube, or rather than build on YouTube that they use on YouTube, of, you know, 30 days, or 14 days, that story skyscraper, if you google videos like that, you'll see construction policies that you could not use the United States, you know, they basically went and prefabbed all of this material, and entire sides and girders and everything of the building, and they just bring up the cranes, and they literally work 24 hours a day, to assemble it, and the whole thing built in, like, you know, two, three weeks. And you compare that to a building in San Francisco, where full treat has been dug up for I think, a year, I don't even know. And there's no structure, I can see here, typically, most times when one walks past, so like the most traffic intersection in the city has been dug up for a year, nothing's happening. So you know, the Chinese can build a building in, you know, two weeks. And, you know, the folks who are, you know, people say, Oh, well, it's communism and their press gang them and, and so on, you know, that they're state controlled and free, those folks are capitalists are doing those, those folks are not, they don't have a gun to their head, you can look the videos are, they're basically very specific construction workers. And that gives a sense of what is held back by battery. So in China, that's, you know, two or three weeks in the US that equivalent delimitate, three years is very nonlinear impact on housing costs. Because if you're the landlord or the person building it, well, you in the US, you have to swallow three years where you can't even occupy the building, which is, you know, 10s or hundreds of millions of dollars, which means that when people do talk about building the jacks up the price quite a bit, versus if you can build it in like three weeks, wow, you can just nonlinearly cut the cost and pile it into your growth rate and build 10 more buildings like that. On some dimensions, the Chinese are actually much less regulated. And so in that sense, you know, I think they do have innovation in areas that we could, we could learn from, but, but obviously in other areas, they're, they're more controlled. And so you know, for example, a recent crackdown on digital currencies, very unfortunate, is that, you know, what I'd like to see is a diversity of regulatory environments around the planet, with different kinds of jurisdictions having different kinds of rules that suit them, they're compatible with their culture, and yet are also something that attracts, you know, foreign capital entrepreneurs and jobs and what have you. But drone zones and self driving cars shown some construction zones in the zone and that zone,

Unknown Speaker  37:27  
you've all Harare, the author of sapiens, homo Deus has sort of talked about, or coined this term called the useless class, which are effectively the people that will get displaced because of you know, advancements in artificial intelligence is one. Do you agree with that premise that a lot of jobs are getting lost that the 50 year old trucker is going to have a tough time finding a new job, or new world? And we're going to hold class of citizens that don't have work to do?

Unknown Speaker  37:51  
So? i? I do, but I also believe that AI will create a new working class. And the reason I think so is that in order to power AI, you need train data. And think that the new assembly line is going to be people doing basically reCAPTCHA type tasks for digital currency. And a new algorithm that's going to be trained for a long, long time, it's going to need enormous amount of human trained is this an A Is this a B is a C, that kind of thing. It's a cat, it's a dog. And so to get millions and millions and millions of data points of very high quality, you're going to have hearings during it. And it's very similar to an assembly line, except the awesome part is you can do it in your phone and eat it on the

Unknown Speaker  38:31  
go. We we talked about what utopia looks like to you I want to talk about what dystopia looks like what do you think is his most worrisome?

Unknown Speaker  38:40  
That's interesting, um, you know, there's a lot of folks who spend a lot of time thinking about pocalypse, and, you know, there's some that you didn't list here, which are like financial Apocalypse, right? Where in the US debt and the Euro, and so on, all of that stuff blows up on that list that's extremely likely near term, that we're gonna have another financial crisis. I'm not sure if it's next year, or like, five years from now or something like that. But, um, you know, probably it's not going to be like 20 years from now it's gonna, it's going to take that

Unknown Speaker  39:11  
that is 2008

Unknown Speaker  39:12  
it's gonna be worse. And the reason I think it's going to be worse is because none of the problems for 2008 were really actually solved. They just kind of papered over them with quantitative easing. energen, Yellen recently made a remark saying that, you know, hey, we'll never have another financial crisis again. And it's very similar, I think, to Ben Bernanke, in 2007, about the so called great moderation where he, you know, he said, okay, you know, like, we've tamed the cycle, and, you know, it's all it's all done. Right. And that was, you know, kind of not the case. He's like, he basically almost exactly said something like, we're never gonna have something like the Great Depression again. Okay. And then like, basically right at that time, the mortgage crisis was about to kick off. So yeah, I think there's there's a lot of possible failure modes. I think the financial crisis stuff is probably the most probable there's sites like Zero Hedge that have called 200 of the last two financial crises, if you're familiar with those, right, yeah, I mean, so that that's one that I think is the most likely, you know, kind of near term thing. Some other ones like, you know, robots or gray goo, you know, or, like, you know, possibly a nuclear war, some kind of nuclear war thing I'm actually not as concerned about because

Unknown Speaker  40:20  
even our politics, even in our current politics, you read Twitter.

Unknown Speaker  40:24  
Yeah, no, the reason I'm not is because it's far fewer bombs than the US and USSR had pointed against each other. So unfortunately, San Francisco is a place that Kim Jong Il has in his or driven, has in his simulated, I don't know, if you saw that it was, it was on the news, like a few months ago, they put a video out of all the, you know, North Korean generals clapping, the video that they showed was of San Francisco getting right, okay, great. I think they'd like zoomed in on my apartment, basically, yeah. You'd be that as me, as horrible as nuclear change would be the norm of nuclear tax being eroded, and so on so forth. You know, North Korea does not have bombs to blow up the entire United States, even terrorists, as destabilizing and bad as that would be to new, you know, a single, you know, city, it would not mean, you know, the end of civilization, which, you know, could have been, like us versus us or something else in a very long term. Certainly not today, certainly not tomorrow, probably not 10 years, maybe more like, you know, 30 years. Or that might happen is, if you contiguous nation states in the same way anymore. And based more like 50 years, but you know, or let's say, nation states are less common. And by that what I mean is, like, you know, Europe used to be like, this kind of overlapping set of principalities was very hard to draw lines, you know, and it was more like a social network than it was, you know, like a clear country, graphically defined nation states, in that kind of environment, nuclear weapons become less and less useful to achieve a political objective, because you nuke a bunch of your supporters along with a bunch of your enemies, as an example, actually, that we can more relate to in the modern day us, you know, Democrats and Republicans. If you look at a map in the US, yes, there's, you know, Democrats are concentrated in cities and Republicans are in the plains, but it's very well mixed. And it's hard to find areas that have just 100% of 100%. Other so I think it'd be unlikely that even as polarized as there are, for one to nuke the other worlds to fractal, right, and so that spreading and so on, makes it harder to nuke each other. So I'm less concerned about, you know, run up nuclear war. So like, I mean, at least that one is, it's bad, but sounds bad was in the 20th century. We're going the other ones. Some of them are very far future. Like, you know, nanotech doesn't even really work yet. So Raikou Yeah, I mean, it's possible for it is, but, you know, this is a great good problem for viewers who haven't heard of it, like, you get your nanotech and your machines, and they kind of, you know, are stupid, and they've got bugs in them. And they just turn everything they touch integrated glue and everything, just you know, and they replicate and everything was great. Good. Yep, it's possible to happen. But we're not really that close to it. Robots killing humans. some extent. That one is definitely going to happen, in the sense that there's just too much of a distinguish investment in autonomous robots, and, and, you know, drones and so on, it's probably already happened in some sense, where, you know, like, a drone targeting system says, Hey, so and so's terrorist push button, and then the guy killed. Like a true Terminator like scenario, I think we need a lot of breakthroughs in AI before that happens. So I don't think that is like a Next, you know, one year or five year kind of thing, even though AI is advancing rapidly. It's not yet at that point that I think it's like, you know, let's worry about it. And then the counter argument for a lot of these folks is, well, by the time it gets to that point, then you can't worry about it's already gone too far. But I guess I'm just generally protects or person there. Many, many, many arguments against advancing technologies could have been given, you know, should we not have done chemistry because you know, we've got sarin gas? And should we not have done physics because we had nuclear bombs? Maybe, you know, we've managed to struggle through so far. And I don't think it's possible to stop the future. So we just need a moderator

Unknown Speaker  44:05  
user, how do you think about sort of what should and shouldn't be decentralized? And not just from like, you know, a technical standpoint, but also from like institution standpoint, from a social standpoint? How do you how do you think about that?

Unknown Speaker  44:15  
decentralization is really hard,

Unknown Speaker  44:17  
and it's really costly, slows things down. It has lots of lots of downsides. But the huge upsides of it are, it unlocks a bunch of incentives. Once people know that something can't be taken from them, they're much more likely to work hard on and so that's a consequence of censorship. But it's also seizure resistant spread, you can't see somebody's assets if they're, if position is decentralized. I would say what should be decentralized, we should have decentralized alternatives, almost every major web service and technology so we should have a decent public DNS and we should have a decentralized

Unknown Speaker  44:51  
BGP, if we can figure it out.

Unknown Speaker  44:53  
And we should have centralized versions of Facebook and Twitter and so on. And, you know, all those kinds of things. I do believe we will eventually get, but they will require many different kinds of models to make them work. And it may turn out that hybrid models that are partially centralized and partially decentralized are the easiest ones to get to work. And that's, you know, part of our thesis, and we'll see if that's true. And then,

Unknown Speaker  45:15  
over time,

Unknown Speaker  45:16  
if the inefficiencies of decentralization are out competed by the fact that the gains from them are the incentives that people have to

Unknown Speaker  45:24  
promote them, I mean, how many people

Unknown Speaker  45:27  
are out there? And you know, advocating for PayPal? Right? it because it's, you know, a centralized kind of thing that could only be so many states and compare that to the entire global Bitcoin community, just, you know, not even comparable. So even though you know, yes, today, Bitcoin has lower TPS and PayPal. And by the way, there's new stuff on the way like, you know, plasma aetherium, back there could really interrupt increased transaction velocity, you know, yes, it's gonna lower TPS. And it's poor in some regards, from a technological standpoint, in the sense that it doesn't have the same transaction throughput. It's better in other regards from a technological standpoint, because Scott, unfree stability and other kinds of things. So even if it's got some disadvantages, some advantages, one of the biggest advantages is it's got a huge

Unknown Speaker  46:07  
cheerleading base.

Unknown Speaker  46:08  
Right? And that may be enough to say, Well, yeah, centralize a lot of things. Know what to not

Unknown Speaker  46:14  
do, you know, what should you not decentralized,

Unknown Speaker  46:18  
something that's not going to benefit from it. And we're going to see what kinds of things those are harder to do. So I wouldn't say decentralized, unless you have a good thesis on how you're gonna get that crowd around him and get people working with it.

Unknown Speaker  46:30  
And expanding out for a sec, we've sort of been wired as humans to have the same, you know, live in the same place have the same sort of 10 or 50, or 150, or whatever it is sort of, you know, community like religion, we have a set identity, how do how does sort of meaning our sense of meaning change in this new world? You know, and related, how does the concept of religion change? Like, what are your thoughts on that because sort of radically different from, from what we've been doing up to up to now?

Unknown Speaker  46:56  
I'd say There are however, you know, human groups,

Unknown Speaker  46:59  
like you know, what Stalin called, in a negative way the rootless cosmopolitans, there have been human groups who have been migrants, right. You know, there's the Jewish diaspora and the Indian diaspora and the Chinese diaspora and English diaspora and so on that being folks who you know, cultures have been pushing going, seafaring, mercantile or migratory, who are well adapted, I would say to this new world that they're as routed to a place they are willing to snap laptop shut and clip suitcase open. And I think that kind of person will will do well, in this in this new world. I also think that you know, you mentioned religion,

Unknown Speaker  47:33  
in many ways,

Unknown Speaker  47:34  
blockchain is a religion that works. And let me explain what I mean by that. So if you got, you know, 100,000 or a million people, and you put them in a circle, and you had them, close your eyes, and hope that a 747 will just get levitated off the ground, that's not going to happen. But if you have 100,000, or a million people, and they close their eyes, they like say, Okay, I believe this digital currency is valuable. Now, obviously, that has some basic security properties of the kinds of stuff that we have

Unknown Speaker  47:59  
today, you know, where

Unknown Speaker  48:00  
you can't see the money and so on, there's actually scarcity enforced. But given that primitive given blockchain that has those primitives, which are now well understood in 2017, well, these folks have just given the thing value, even if the rest of world thinks they're dumb, so long as they have engineers in the mix, and, you know, doctors and dentists and other people who have tradable external skills, if that, you know, engineer, the outside world trades their soft skills, and, you know, receives dollars,

Unknown Speaker  48:25  
and then

Unknown Speaker  48:26  
uses dollars to convert into some internal currency that this network accepts and sends back and forth. The rest of world has, well, you know, you've just got to present it fine, you know, you guys internal currency, with that is is actually similar to the process of like saying, Okay, well, you know, the small country, you know, 2 million people has its own currency quick, you know, when it comes to airport, I'll change into the dinar, or whatever your, you know, local currencies that repeat, and I'll transact there, right. And I'll just respect that kind of local certain thing. And that's really interesting, because it's kind of the next step up from how you take a startup and you turn a bunch of folks belief that something can turn into something right, you know, when you start a company, it's always kind of a delusion to think this line on a piece of paper, this name, I just came up with product time, or what have you, right, could become a big thing. And you have to sort of willed it into existence has to be a shared delusion among people. That creates value and that creates wealth and structure and a morale and we've got a mechanism for creating turning morale into into value. Obviously, there's the technology is there as well, but morale is very important. And now we've got some skills that up which turns morale into a larger form of wealth, which digital currency. So I think that's that's kind of how I think about in the context of, you know, say religion in our secular age.

Unknown Speaker  49:34  
So what would philosophers have most inspired you? Like, what thinkers or authors that sort of are most influential for your worldview today?

Unknown Speaker  49:43  
So I wouldn't limit it

Unknown Speaker  49:45  
to just philosophers. I like Richard firemans writings like Srinivasa Ramanujan, the classical kind of books, I'm interested in so you know, Adam Smith, Hobbes Machiavelli, kanakia, Indian philosopher, Locke, Chinese history. compete to subconscious. I read a lot of history of the 20th century in particular. So what happened in Russia would happen in China would happen India would have to drill those things that you know, outside of the US just not really taught American history, you kind of go, you get 77 618 65 1945. And then you're the president didn't really learn but because I'm

Unknown Speaker  50:20  
very interested in the history of

Unknown Speaker  50:22  
socialism, history of communism, history of capitalism, those kinds of things, you know, obviously, you know, the famous mathematicians, but when people ask me to recommend a book, sometimes they'll recommend sovereign individual or seeing like a state. And sometimes they'll recommend my favorite book, if I if I have nothing to do. It's the Princeton companion to mathematics. And now the new Princeton, applied mathematics. And those books are just amazing, because you really just need those to just learn all the math you'd ever want to learn. And you can just get almost arbitrarily deep with them. So there's kind of things have been, like, influential to me, I could probably mean more folks. But that gets a pretty good picture.

Unknown Speaker  50:57  
Cool. So I want to try an experiment where I want to name a few people who you are very close with work with just see if there's a point of nuanced disagreements on anything, intellectually. Okay. But one, I just brought him up. Is there any nuanced disagreement with Peter Thiel, anything? We're different

Unknown Speaker  51:13  
than Peter, I think I've probably been much more bullish on blockchain. And much more skeptical about, you know, the prospects of the US. And so I think that's, like maybe the most fundamental disagreement

Unknown Speaker  51:24  
there. And I wouldn't overstate that, but

Unknown Speaker  51:27  
I just say, you know, that's one thing. And then the second thing is, I think, a lot more about the developing world and all potential folks are sees, and that's, you know, that's something where, you know, I have personal experience with those folks there. So yeah, I know, there's a lot of talent there. And so I don't I don't begrudge anybody for not thinking about that as much.

Unknown Speaker  51:44  
How about Marc Andreessen? Is it the same answer?

Unknown Speaker  51:46  
Mark is Mark is much more bullish on Silicon Valley than I am, I think, and I think, certainly, this is the center of technology today. But even four years ago, I could see that we were going to need to decentralize it with a financing piece. Everything else, we pushed into the cloud, you know, you know, you've got slack in the cloud, and you've got Google Docs, and you've got AWS, and you've got all these things were from an internet connection anywhere in the world, you can access them and you can run servers, and you can take payments. Now with digital currency. The last piece was, you know, the financing piece. And so now people do not need to come to Silicon Valley to get financing. They don't need to go to Wall Street to get their exit. So I think you're gonna see a rapid decentralization technology out of Silicon Valley last five to 10 years. That may be you know, the bit that and again, when I say disagreement, this is like relatively mild

Transcribed by https://otter.ai
