Unknown Speaker  0:01  
co founder and partner village global. And Balaji Srinivasan CTO of Coinbase. So please give a warm welcome to Eric and valachi.

Unknown Speaker  0:25  
What's up everybody? How are we doing?

Unknown Speaker  0:28  
Good.

Unknown Speaker  0:28  
Please give a round of applause. Welcome Balaji.

Unknown Speaker  0:35  
First we get started, before we get started with a little bit of a congratulations in order. Have you guys been following? apologies, May, May, early June, but it's been pretty significant. not one, but two acquisitions, almost half a billion dollars and exits. And we sort of joke, overnight success 10 years in the making. counsel started, you know, almost 10 years ago, or over 10 years ago, and an urn which sold to sell to Coinbase. So now you're the CTO of Coinbase. Talk about what's Coinbase his mission right now? And what's your focus within that broader question?

Unknown Speaker  1:14  
Yeah, sure. So I think a great way to think about Coinbase is its interface or its interface between the legacy banking system and kind of this blockchain future. And similar to actually like AOL, in the early days in a way where it was interface between legacy phone lines and sintered in future, but we're talking about interfacing banking, and crypto, we think of it as like, you know, the classical mullet business, you know, business in the front in the back. And what that means is we need to maintain good relationships with banks and regulators and politicians to maintain our Fiat rails, we also need to be you to be on the cutting edge of crypto and watching in to make sure we're abreast of that. And so there's a kind of duality to the business. And, you know, while I spend, you know, time on both both sides, certainly my focus is more on the crypto side of making sure that that end of businesses is working on one of our biggest focuses that we've you know, talked about is trying to push crypto from the investment phase into the utility phase. So, you know, lots and lots of people have bought crypto and have made money on it and having it go up. But, you know, the next phase is now that millions of people around the world callidus, you can actually use this paper. And that's actually kind of a an important point. Yeah.

Unknown Speaker  2:25  
So 20 million, Coinbase, Coinbase accounts? We I think

Unknown Speaker  2:28  
we stopped publishing Exactly. Okay. I didn't need

Unknown Speaker  2:31  
scientific notation. How do we get orders of magnitude more people using crypto?

Unknown Speaker  2:36  
Right? So great question. So we know we want to go from where we are to like a billion users, right? And how do we get a billion people want to watch him? Well, what's interesting about that is, you know, if you think about what Facebook did, they sent 4 billion people over about eight years. And if you just think about what the signup service would be required to do that, it's about four people every second for eight years, or it's about 120,000 a day times here, per year, for that period of time. And simply, you know, a signup service taking four requests per second was actually a pretty high traffic web service. And if you now multiply that by, you know, all the other stuff that you do on the site, and all the stuff, all the traffic watching, that's gonna be a very non trivial technical Feat. What it also means is actually that even three years from now, the vast majority of people in the world will even if the growth rate is totally vertical, the vast majority will still be being introduced to crypto. So huge part of it is going to be education and onboarding. And that's going to continue to shape the future.

Unknown Speaker  3:34  
So with urn, you're trying to do a few things. One of those things was the critical parallel economy. Yeah. To pay to with creative destruction, machine payable web, talk about how partnering with Coinbase allows you to achieve

Unknown Speaker  3:49  
your broader vision and what you're trying to do with our shirt. So basically, you know, we think that there is room for a new generation social networks, which I call the kind of blockchain first social networks. Critically, that is not to try to decentralize everything at once. I think going full blockchain in 2018 is hard to do. Instead, think of you know, the blockchain as a second kind of backend service that provides your users with a balances and B private keys and boasts the ability to encrypt messages and you know, sign contracts and all that type of stuff. And if you have that as an augmentation to an existing social network with, you know, its Postgres database, and ability to serve images and what have you, you've got something quite powerful because you can go from a social network where people just poking like and tweeting each other sort of when you're actually earning money, right? They're completing tasks, they're playing emails and getting paid and so on. And so that's kind of this next generation of social networks. And herb is actually doing quite well in profit business making millions of dollars in revenue simply because lots of businesses want to pay to reach people, right, like people will definitely pay to get a reply to an email to get service. On weekly basis, user base, you know, we have like many millions of users It would be to put those two together. So now we can have millions of people completing tasks and getting paid for earning concurrency. The reason I think this is interesting is in the three to five year window we'd love to do is take all these people around the world who have smartphones, and not just give them information, but give them income, right, they open the burnout, they've got, you know, lists of tasks, and those tasks are personalized to them. And if you can program then you can, you know, get a Joshua task, or if you're a lawyer, you get a legal task and so on. And just like the Twitter feed, you never run out of tasks that you can do, you can just turn on you from any browser that sort of want to be in like five years ago,

Unknown Speaker  5:32  
and you gave a couple of talks that you've gotten last couple years. One of them is called Silicon Valley's ultimate exit, get it was called the network state, sort of building on a few ideas. And one of them was it was this broader concept of, there isn't enough exit in terms of in terms of where we live, and governments and cities should be competing with over, over over the best talent in offering so that they they're offering better services, and that we're having more experimentation of our experiments, similar to you know, Amazon had us a lot of cities in the US competing over, you know, who gets Amazon's HQ, or, you know, special economic zones? China, talk about what you were trying to do that achieve with those talks? And what's the next iteration of that? That's awkward in 2018?

Unknown Speaker  6:16  
Yeah, good question. So, um, you know, the concept of competitive government is certainly not something that's novel to me or anything like that. Insofar as there's a novel aspect to this, it's kind of thinking about, okay, how does new technology actually make competitive government possible, right, there's a few observations, you know, one is that mobile is making this more mobile, and laws function led to money. That's to say your x, y location determines the local and then the state and federal overlays that apply to you in that constraint or incentivize your behavior. So if laws function electric last year, you can always make this for mobile, it's becoming easier to change your legend machine, and those easier to change the law under which you live, right. That's like an interesting combination, two obvious observations that lead to a non obvious observation, which is the cost of changing your law, your governing law is decreasing rapidly, because you know, you can just use a smartphone, and you can call an Uber and Lyft, and Airbnb, and all your books aren't allowed and your musics in the cloud, and you're just here, your friends are in the cloud, that's an underappreciated aspect of social networks, the penalty for moving is less, because many of your friends, you don't even actually know where they live anymore. But you're still friends with them on Facebook or on, you know, Snapchat or whatever, right? Just kind of one aspect of it is this increased mobility as increasing the ability for people to exit and that's making a lot of ideas around the federal government have been around for decades New Relic, I think the second aspect is the structure in place, so not necessarily physically moving. But I think there's three technologies that are going to be converging over the next 10 years or so, which are social networks, blockchain and VR. So social nerves was watching what we just talked about, which are social numbers, that you can actually go and earn money, right. And I think that's the next five years. So earn is one variation of that scheme. It's another variation, I think there's going to be others on and these will have, you know, use of watching in different ways, some will, you know, pay people for generating content, someone pay people for, you know, replies and complete tasks that we're doing. Some of them will, you know, pay people to, or use more than encryption features to be synonymous. The other leg of it is social networks, VR, you're seeing some of that already with like, VR chat, right? Basically, VR communities that, you know, are kind of like animal RPGs, which have been around for 15 years, very immersive, except kind of addressing a different audience. I think eventually, all three of those technologies come together, maybe in 10 years, I think five years will be the very earliest. And when you get social networks plus blockchain plus VR, that's what I call the digital economy, right. And the digital economy is something where you can put on your, you know, x generation VR headset, and you can actually work there, right, that's your morning commute. You know, your morning commute is your morning commute, right? And you just boom, you go into this VR world, and you're earning digital currency for doing digital work. And more and more work is already becoming digital. It's not just programmers, and designers, and so on. But legal work is all electronic. Right? A lot of medical work is fundamentally about returning a diagnosis or returning instructions given given inputs, even things like construction worker turning into construction rooms, and things like that. So more more work will become digital, more and more people will go into the office. And that's really amazing. Because that means you don't necessarily need a visa, you just need to be able to log into that, you know, that digital economy. And so if you want a borderless world, that's where it gets you, right. But I do believe that, you know, that login service, you know, you're not going to live in every single person, that's that login service. It's going to be you know, if they're a bad actor, you will land them or whatever, but it will be much more flexible. You'll have quote, visas to thousands of these virtual countries, these digital economies and that's when they'll turn

Unknown Speaker  9:41  
and say more about how identity is gonna look like because when we say pseudonymous, people automatically assume that there's gonna be no accountability, right to talk about, you know, where's that? Where's the balance there between freedom and accountability? how's that gonna work?

Unknown Speaker  9:54  
Yeah, great question. So there's a huge difference between anonymous pseudonymous and like full real name right? And like, you know, a full real name is like a global identifier that's, that's an identifier of it at first, it links you across everything. You can plug it into a database and pull your social security information and your current address and, you know, tax stuff and employment history and all that type of stuff. Right? So it's like a primary key in the database, but a pseudonym. And whereas a completely anonymous attendee has none, no metadata whatsoever, right? a pseudonym is an intermediate where you have, you know, some track record, right, you have some posting history. And with cryptocurrency, you might have some earning history, we might have Mystique associated with it. So you could imagine, for example, a Twitter, like a V tutorial, or crypto Twitter, where everybody had to skate like $1. And if you behave badly, so we're just building block you, but they can burn your dog. Right? And now, that'd be something that wouldn't actually benefit them. And they wouldn't do it for just, you know, a random reason. But what it would mean is that people have actually been polite, because they're sitting on synonymous entities were tied to like, $1. And there'd be a cost for actually going into screaming at someone I mentioned, imagining YouTube comments. Oh, my God. Yeah. So like, the thing is, you know, this is not a completely unheard of concept, the contract with Russia actually charged like $1, for people to, you know, get signed up. And that was immensely useful in terms of just meeting people behavior, right, there's a slight amount of skin in the game, and people need

Unknown Speaker  11:20  
to read the borderless summit, I want to talk about it on the map, how it affects your macro trends, but also people's personal careers. You know, one of the things we've talked about the past 30 years is your ideas, concept where, you know, in past 1015 years, something like Y Combinator said, loop San Francisco, start a company and raise venture. And now in a new world, in some ways, your thesis is you can live anywhere, or move away with cheaper, you don't have to start a company work remotely, and save money, preserve your stock, talk more about that thesis and what that means for for entrepreneurs, operators.

Unknown Speaker  11:58  
Yeah, it's good to be clear of love, respect for Y Combinator, and PG and everything they've done. But in the same way that like, you know, your tech stack in 2005, you know, might have been Java based or whatever. And now, it's, it's not going to be you know, like, like something different, right? I'm the same way, some of the things that were true, then are no longer as true now, right? You don't need to come to sand hill anymore to raise capital, you can do it via you know, Icos, it's very new. You don't need to live in the United States to have good standard of living. But many countries around the world, especially in Asia, have dramatically improved over the last, you know, 1020 years in terms of standard. And you know, just like a show of hands, who here has rent as their number one expense. Unless you're actually wrong, taxable your actual rental expense, the rent is probably your number two. And it is much, much, much easier to chop your living expenses, your rent and your burn rate on to one fifth to 20% or 10% of what they currently are to decrease your net worth by tax. Right. So moving overseas to a place like Kuala Lumpur, or you know, like, like some inexpensive locale that still has fast internet, right, there's, there's companies like this Nomad list, there's a company that I founded a couple years ago called Apollo teleport, that are search engines for location, which allow you to take your current lifestyle and rotation around the world that best suits you, which also reduces your cost of living, right? If you can do that, if you can move overseas, and now cut your burn rate by, you know, five x, you know, I think the most important metric for an individual is your personal runway, which is your savings divided by your burn rate. And everybody thinks about the top line, but very, very few people think about the bottom line is actually have more control over. And now that we're in this era of remote work and mobile. And, you know, like a lot of folks here are software engineers, or designers, or someone, someone who can work internationally. If you're just starting out, I would advise you to do is go get a job at Google or Facebook or Coinbase, or whatever. You know, get, you know, have a good salary or what have you. kick butt, at least for the first year. And then consider maybe turning down a promotion. And instead asking, Hey, you know, show myself and be a responsible person to show myself to kick butt. Let me move overseas, so that I can keep the same salary, but I can bang, you know, 4050 60% more a year, right? Then a couple of years, you've got years of personal runway, because you've just cut your expenses so much that you've got, you know, 30 k a year expenditure, you've got 100,000 savings, you've got three years. So you don't need Angel financing, you can just bootstrap the business yourself on 100% of the equity. So I think that's a really interesting strategy that's newly possible in 2018. That hasn't been possible.

Unknown Speaker  14:41  
That doesn't zoom out.

Unknown Speaker  14:43  
How our governments doing crypto right now how should they be doing it as the US viewing end of China viewing and you guys as the forefront of bring crypto to the world? How do you think about the world?

Unknown Speaker  14:55  
Yeah, so I think there's a huge, frankly positive shift or less Five years, where you know that there's not a day that goes by or some guard official or bank or a politician doesn't make some comments protocol on blockchain technology. But if you do that for a second, what are Bill Gates and Warren Buffett and jamie diamond and Christine Lagarde Ben Bernanke, he and and all these people, what are they talking about? They're talking about watching, right? They're not talking about something else, right. They're not disappearing, photos are having to talk about watching. And so that means if this thing that started on an internet forum, right, like, like, one tsunami, this person or group 10 years ago has shaped in the world with just the power of an idea of the power of the execution that through through software, and the world is moving in the direction of blockchain. If you zoom out and look at Okay, what is the last 510 years look like? Well, I mean, we've got something where heads of state and Malta, Bermuda are doing meetings with watching companies, we've got something where the head of the IMF has given a whole speech about how watching is like an important corrective to see if it makes it or not. And the reason I think that's interesting is, you know, yes, there's pro and con comments. But for every con, there's a pro, right for every you know, Jeeva diamond, there's a Blankfein who's saying positive things about blockchain. So that like at a high level is very important because it only if if 100% of the world's governments and institutions and so on were aligned against blockchain to be difficult, but it's not 100%. In fact, like 50% are Pro, as long as everybody doesn't stop and flourish in those regions, those areas, those institutions that do support it. And so I think it's going to break through and just

Unknown Speaker  16:27  
say, there's some smart people from Warren Buffett ability arvc throwing shade, what are they not? What are they not seeing where the points justified?

Unknown Speaker  16:36  
So, you know, obviously, super smart people. Buffett has said, for example, that he doesn't understand technology companies, and then he was wrong, and Amazon and so on, right, though, it's a different matter. But, you know, even Bill Gates like, you know, who was out there, right in line with their companies, and they missed it, Microsoft, super smart people, lots of respect for them. But you know, it doesn't actually matter if they're critical, because the blockchain just kind of keeps going. Right. You know, one thing I will mention, in terms of government resistance, I feel actually pretty confident at this point now, because early last year, you know, China was, you know, Chinese exchanges were most of volume was the mining was in China, you know, people thought, Well, if there's a huge crackdown by the Chinese government wants you to be in big trouble. That actually did happen, right? China took a pretty hard swing at the blockchain. Last year, exchanges were shuttered, mining was encouraged to move overseas. You know, a lot of people were seriously inconvenience. But, you know, like we just said, it did not kill the watch and made it stronger. price went up, like more than 10 x right from both Bitcoin and ether, the entire Ico boom happened, right. And that was probably, you know, certainly the government of the largest country by population in the world, it's really one of the most technically sophisticated, frankly, aggressive in terms of their ability to do filtering, privacy, monitoring, and all that kind of stuff. They took parts of the blockchain, some 20 x, right. And so I think like, that's kind of the trial run of, I do think there's at least one thing that we have not yet encountered, which, which we may encounter at some point, which is partition tolerance. You know, you could imagine the Great Firewall actually starting to try to block packets, you know, unfortunately, two to three versions of Bitcoin port or other ports. And if you really start doing deep packet filtering, there's a predator prey kind of aspect to it. There's a possibility that mining extensive blockchain within China, but transactions are happening outside and there will be a peekaboo effect where we may not be able to see those transactions, there might be a partition, stick partition tolerant blockchains are important thing for research to kind of guard against that. That's like kind of the last man to beat in terms of current challenges. But I actually feel pretty, pretty good about it, because anything short of that we've kind of already survived, and we're going to be

Unknown Speaker  18:40  
the is your History buff? Yeah. You know, we talk about Chinese history, Russian history, French history. Which historical period, do you think right now is most analogous to something where we're thinking about right now as it relates to as well as kryptos with technologies related to innovation? Yeah,

Unknown Speaker  18:57  
I think 1800s America in reverse, right? Well, okay, so, so I think of like 1950 as peak centralization. So you have, you know, one telephone company and you have two superpowers, and you have three intelligence stations. And then if you move forward and backwards in time, things get more decentralized. So if you can afford the time from 1950, you know, you get the cable television and then you get the internet, frontier opening in 1991, basic commercial internet traffic became illegal, then, if you move backwards in time, almost exactly 100 years earlier. 1819 is when the frontier closed, and it can move forward, you know, 20 years from 1990 you get to you know, 2010 that there are now where you have all of these wealthy folks who made money on the internet are all this radically faster innovation wherever you barefield you know, better service and for now you've got something backwards attack from 8090 you get a similar era where you have Rockefeller and Carnegie and you have all these tycoons, you know, nowadays called robber barons with the time called captains of industry, who built railroads and built basically kind of, you know, the western in America. And you go a little bit further back and you get to the time of private banking. Right. So this insider has the free banking era where banks will issue their own script. And it's kind of similar to what we're now right into the 1800s. America kind of moving backwards in time starts to to get comparable for our current era where things get more and more decentralized, then you get to 1700

Unknown Speaker  20:16  
America and things get interesting. What can we learn from China? Because it's, it's a radical free market, you know, zones, but also, it's heavy state control, there were sort of misconceptions about about China that we have in the Western world.

Unknown Speaker  20:32  
Yes, so I mean, like, you know, obviously, China's pros and cons on, but I think, you know, the, so one of the biggest is the Chinese are actually much more innovative than people give them credit for, especially today, they kind of ascend to the value chain. And they are, you know, just like Japan had certain areas that they became very internationally competitive in, you know, automobiles and consumer electronics and other kinds of stuff. You know, China has chosen certain domains like drones, you know, with with DJI and gentlemen with DJI. And actually, you know, weird way of watching Zhi Jing Ping actually just made some positive comments on this show that a lot of Chinese leaders in this space, even if the Chinese government is kind of have to live with a positive influence, like attacking it. And certainly AI, which they're all in. And one thing that's really interesting is the asymmetric nature of it, where Chinese entrepreneurs read TechCrunch, they're hyper aware of everything going on with us. And us entrepreneurs do not go and look at a BTC BTC calm and they don't read Chinese blogs. So it's very asymmetric, where this group is aware of all the answers from here, but not vice versa. Um, I think, you know, kind of translation stuff might change that, I think the blockchain will be interesting, because for the first time, I'm seeing a lot of seed stage interaction between Chinese capitalists and Chinese, you know, entrepreneurs and American and Western ones, and we'll see what happens.

Unknown Speaker  21:50  
Another idea you've been really fascinated by is tokens. tokens is sec logic, just confused tokens. And Icos, it doesn't necessarily have to be for raising money, but just for sending it aligning incentives within a network. When somebody talks about personal tokens, talk a little bit about that, or any other ideas related to tokens

Unknown Speaker  22:10  
that are going to basketball right now. Sure. So like, you know, if you take your company, right, you've got different ways to finance it. Um, two of those ways, certainly not all the two of those ways are debt financing, and equity financing, debt financing, you take a loan, and take a loan of $1 million, and then you have to pay back, like 1.2 million or 1.3 million over a period of time, right? And that works. If you're a capital A business, you're generating cash, right? conversely, equity financing, you don't take a loan, you sell a percentage of your kind of capital structure or your cap table, and you don't have to pay back in cash instead, if you're bought, then, you know, the the early investor gets it. So those presidents right, so in the same way right now, like the way that people are funding a lot of their lives is when student loans and you know, 30 year mortgage, which are just two forms of debt financing, right? What if we could bring equities child financing down to low individual, where, you know, if you rather than taking on, like a student loan at age 18, when people don't know what the future is, instead, you know, based on their psats, and their GPA and all the other stuff that's meant to college, you can imagine people would issue a personal token, and then buyers, that personal token, that sort of, you know, bet that this person will, you know, achieve things in their life, and they'll get a return. There's various ways to accomplish that, for example, if you sell a personal token, and you sell 20% of it, then you committed to having 20% of your equity of any company that you go in and put into this pool. And as returned back to the folks who back to you initially, various ways to structure it. The tricky part is, of course going to be how do you make sure that that person actually pays their money into that crypto account and discipline each on it on those probably reputational surfaces that could take that into account. And the cool thing about this is you wouldn't have a lifetime of debt. When you get out of college and you know, you're a young person and said, you have a different way to finance your life. They're self ipo.com is like a your mindset that like we've been talking about this for a while. So it's a kind of a first kind of concept.

Unknown Speaker  24:05  
So let's summarize. How does blockchain best enable global equality for people out there in India or wherever you're listening has made me think about his way to directly improve their life. And on a macro sense, although, you know, like all technology or alignments, overall, net positive? were some of the trade offs that that that we can process and how can we, you know, correct

Unknown Speaker  24:28  
against them a little bit? That's what we think. Sure. I think, you know, what blockchain means is what technology means means more upside and more downside, right. You know, cryptocurrency is like it's at the use of money, you can move millions of dollars with a keystroke or you can bring dash RF your entire culture, right. So I think on balance, it's going to be positive because what we'll do is all those failure modes, we can usually use technology to fix those. For example, you can have, you know, backup keys or multi SIG so you can just delete all your own keys but something else consecutively, shortly. Sitting on balance is going to be positive, but in the short term is going to be more upside or downside.

Unknown Speaker  25:06  
And when people often don't realize how important hyper liquidity is, and what that means, can you share more about the benefits of the liquidity? markets?

Unknown Speaker  25:17  
Yeah, sure. So it will, I mean, if you compare, like American versus European options and traditional financial markets, the difference between the two is due to the fact that one of them, you can exit at any time, you know, or the, the, the type of maturity versus when you have to wait until the end to exit. And the fact that you can get out of a position somewhere in between versus at the end that you have liquidity does itself have premium value that you can assign to it. So there is a liquidity premium. And anything that can be tokenized, eventually will be simply because of that liquidity premium, the ability to, you know, sell your position or get back in within, you know, like months or, or a year or the 10 years is a very big deal. Obviously, that has to be done in a way that's compliant with local regulations and what have you, but at least some governments that, that adopt that kind of mentality, and those are ones that are going to attract the

Unknown Speaker  26:08  
next Wall Street. Awesome. Well, that's all I have for today. Please you around applause for

Unknown Speaker  26:20  
global people. find you online and what's upcoming for

Unknown Speaker  26:26  
sure. Yeah, I mean, twitter.com.

Unknown Speaker  26:29  
But also, blood definitely is.

Unknown Speaker  26:31  
Also another round of applause. Thank you.

Unknown Speaker  26:43  
Thank you so much, Harry, and Balaji. Um, what's next? So we have a very exciting talk coming up. I'm one of our good friends, a friend of founders embassy. And we're talking a lot about financial capital in the valley, but I think one of the most important topics

Transcribed by https://otter.ai
