Unknown Speaker  0:00  
Cool, thanks, everyone. So we have Balaji Srinivasan

Unknown Speaker  0:06  
with us today, we're gonna do a fireside chat and follow up with the QA, as many was mentioned before, like biologies background based on his past affiliations is not even indicative of like the impact he's had on the space. He's one of the foremost thinkers, and I think he is someone who finds very potent nuggets of truth and, and, and really kind of sticks, sticks to his own his own thinking on things and he ends up being right.

Unknown Speaker  0:37  
Over time I've found so

Unknown Speaker  0:40  
we're gonna we're gonna go into kind of why you started Nakamoto and talk about some some themes around huddling crypto anarchy versus crypto civilization. I think that last part might be a good smart. Part Two jump off in. So you started Nakamoto Do you want to describe for the gang? what that is?

Balaji Srinivasan  1:02  
Yeah, sure. Can you guys hear me okay. Um, so Nakamoto is starting as like a monthly sort of news magazine with free content, we should have our new issue coming out soon. Um, and it is, it's essentially something where it's a crypto discussion that I'd like to have, where people aren't yelling at each other. And, you know, we've got a community opening up soon, where you can come there synonymously on, and it's proof of huddle to get in. So you have to hold at least a minimum amount of Bitcoin. But it's not just proof of huddle, but also proof of battle. Like, let's say, you have to be a builder of some kind, you have to have a positive some attitude in general. And that doesn't mean that you never get mad, or you know, like, never dunk on someone on Twitter, but just as a general thing, your your 90 or 95 or 99% positive, and you're not fighting all the time, like some some folks are, as you guys know, the space. Um, and so, you know, the purpose is there, there used to be kind of a cross crypto community on and I think there's a lot of things that are better discussed in long form, rather than, you know, the Reddit comment or the telegram, you know, chat or what have you. And that's kind of the idea behind Nakamoto is information sharing and discussion. Um, because as we kind of maybe run into the next boom, we're gonna want something that you can send to people and say, hey, there's actually some, there's adults in the room. It's not all just grown people yelling at each other on Twitter, which is kind of what the reception for the UN says. I mean, I think john McAfee is entertaining, but not necessarily the first person you want to introduce crypto with, right. And you'll find that your friends who are outside the space will mention McAfee to you, right? Because that's the thing that breaks through, you know, they'll mention Silk Road and all this type of stuff. That's what gets popular coverage. And I think it's incumbent upon us to do something different. Um, so that's kind of motivation for it. You know, go ahead. Sure. And why

Unknown Speaker  2:54  
sort of, you mentioned proof of hodel. And proof of battles, this sounds like something much larger than actual newsletter. First, I'd love to know, kind of what what the what you kind of went into, like, what the impetus for credit, starting with the newsletter is to, like, get people on the same page, make sure there's adults in the room? What's the purpose of having proof of hodel? For for, like, we've had it, we've had discussions around this, like, hodel theme and why it's so important.

Balaji Srinivasan  3:23  
Yeah. So on proof hottel basically shows like a long term commitment to something. And I think hodling is actually, you know, a use case for for BTC. That, that you can use it where you're holding something and you hold that BTC. And you can turn the private key for that into effectively a login mechanism, right? So not just log in with Facebook, or log in with Google or login with LinkedIn, it's login with Bitcoin. And what that does, it gives an incremental utility to Bitcoin over and above simply holding it for the long term, you are also gaining access to various services that you've not otherwise be able to login with. Right. And that's interesting, because it's a it's like another application of it, that doesn't require an on chain transaction. Right, that's a signing something, you know, doing doing a digital signature, that doesn't require anything on chain happening, and yet it's protected by, you know, the, you know, basically work in mining and what have you. So I think that's actually pretty interesting. And I think we'll do that for BTC. And then you can extend the concept other chains, like, my thinking is, everybody Nakamoto holds BTC and is also a builder, you have that in common and we, you know, do the builder thing is you have let's say three other Nakamoto ins that endorse you and you're basically also Nakamoto, right? Um, and and in this way, it's, it's something where those folks endorsing you, we keep a record of that. So in the event that for that reason you misbehave or you're doing something wrong, or that person that you recommend is doing something wrong. The person who is endorsing May, let's say reduce, they may, let's say lose their recommendation rights for six months or something, right. So it gives the discipline for recommending somebody who then turns out to be a jackass, right? Um, and then like, let's say that's v1, and we get to end people that way. What I'd like to also do is have sub Nakamoto is like sub reddits, where you have let's say, the Z cash community or the blockchain community. And each of these sub sub Nakamoto is you can have a moderator for it, who curates community and sets our own proof of proof of X for for that community, for example, to be part of the blocks that community, you have to hold a certain amount of blockstack or Stax tokens rather, and maybe many, or Patrick has to give you a thumbs up or somebody they gave you a thumbs up has to give a thumbs up right? On to get into, let's say, the zero knowledge community, you might need to pass an exam on zero knowledge, right? Like a short exam, but just something that shows you know, the basic concepts, right? You know, what is zero knowledge proof? What's a bulletproof? You know, that kind of stuff, right? And in this fashion, you start to build communities where folks have either skin in the game or knowledge or both, okay. And it's just a completely different mentality than the warfare that we see on social media where it's a pure status game, right? I want to kind of move us towards value signaling, rather than virtue signaling where you know, there's, you're either earning, or you're learning or both, right. And that's, that's like a digital economy as opposed to a social network. It's it's something where it's a, it's an environment where you never feel bad having spent more time on it, right? People will call themselves addicted to Twitter or addicted to Facebook, because it's, it's kind of something which is not really always good. It's kind of like sugar, it's best in moderation. There's good things about Twitter, there's also a lot of bad things. Ideally, this is something where it's like, oh, I'm addicted to working hard learning things and making money. Okay, well, that's not a bad addiction to have, right? Um, so that's the kind of thing I think we can build. Now Now that we've got crypto, we've got actually money on the internet, it's programmable money. So the kind of thing I'd like to do Nakamoto the medium to long term?

Unknown Speaker  6:51  
Well, so it's kind of like hodel or GTFO for Bitcoin and sub communities.

Balaji Srinivasan  6:55  
That's right. And you know, the thing is that, like, in general, I, I don't lose all the spirit of crypto hodl or GTFO. Of course, it's a meme. But in this case, it's actually operationalized as a login mechanism. If you don't hold all you have to GTFO Hmm, I think

Unknown Speaker  7:10  
what's really interesting is like some of the loudest voices on Twitter are some of the people who have self proclaimed is not actually owning a lot of the currency they, they are so religious and tribal about. So this kind of, like, eliminates a little bit of the noise there potentially. Yeah.

Balaji Srinivasan  7:24  
And the thing about this is, like, you know, the thing about crypto Twitter is, the drama is like super intense, and then it just vanishes. It's, it's like, what was the drama of three months ago? Can anyone remember I can't, I'd have to go and look it up. It's, it's, it's like, like a memory list, sort of exercise where it feels like this big thing in the moment. And then you have to, like, cast your mind back for that, because a new wave of information washes over you, right. It's like, it's like memento, or the Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind, just snap and forget everything. Right. Um, and so so like, you know, keeping like short term drama aside, one thing that I think is interesting is you have like the two by two table, where let's call it, you know, express preference versus actual preference, right? So Express preferences, your words and actual preferences, your actions people call revealed preference also. Yeah. And, you know, there's there is a correlation potentially, between being an advocate of something and also holding a lot of that or being a large investor in it. But you can immediately point to off diagonals that say, folks who are large investors may be very large investors and completely mute on social media. In fact, I know a lot of people like that, you know, their, their institutions early folks, just people don't want to be part of the drama for all kinds of reasons. And then you've got the other side who are relative Johnny cub littlies. In you know, and nothing wrong with that, right. But relative Johnny completely is in 2017 or 2018. Who have now, like refashion themselves into folks who basically have you know, proof of tweet, right? And who gained status by being like really rude or mean or crazy. Right. And, and that's, that's actually something which, um, is is like maximalism, it's not price maximalism. They say they're maximizing their own Twitter likes, as opposed to the price dashboard for everybody. If you imagine, you know, for like, think about a basketball game. Imagine if there was no team scoreboard. But everybody saw only their own box score, right, their own stat line, how many rebounds and assists Well, okay, not not even assists, how many points and rebounds and so on they had right, then you get something that's more like the all star game where folks are just trying to maximize their own points, because the cumulative scoreboard is not shown. Now we actually know what a cumulative scoreboard looks like. It looks something more like like, like a sales dashboard, where you have and that's one example where you have let's say 10 or 20 sales reps. And of course, you've got individual stats, but you also have the cumulative stat, which is the revenue for the company, you know, and and often if you've ever built a sales team before, you want to have things that make people feel like they're pulling together, okay, if the team if the company gets over 10 million in revenue for this quarter, then everybody you know like it's a bonus or something. Something like that, right. And that's something where if the big number, the number you're tracking is something that's a community number, you have a completely different environment, where folks, you do want to have that attribution of individual effort to community benefit. But we don't have that scoreboard on Twitter right now, right, where you have his likes, and, and you know, everybody's competing to be like a high priest. And that's a very different scenario than folks pulling together and doing what's best for the team as as opposed to themselves. Now, as I described that, that's, that's completely obvious that something is totally lacking from the UX of Twitter is any form of collective effort that's quantifiable, measurable. And that shows you're actually like maximizing something of value to the community. It doesn't have to be priced, by the way, because price is actually something that's relatively hard for 1000 people to shift. But what it could be is new converts. Right? So like the Mormon Church, for example, they equip people with manuals, you know, to go and do conversions in, like South America and so on, like, bring people into Mormonism. So a fun kind of thing. And interesting kind of thing would be, we start with, let's say, a Bitcoin dashboard. And anybody who's joining Nakamoto has proof of hodl. So we know they own some Bitcoin, and people just compete on how many new Nakamoto ends they can recruit, or new Bitcoin holders. Right? So like, demonstrate lead you responsible for getting 50 new people into BTC. And even if it's 10 bucks, who cares? Right? Like, that's like the one you know, like, everybody starts somewhere, you know, maybe those 10 bucks become 1000 bucks, if thing goes up 100 X, who knows, right? Maybe 100 bucks, who knows. But that's a quantifiable and undeniable thing, it's a real person who did this, then if that works, that's an evangelism dashboard, we can scale out to the stacks community, right, or the Z cash community, or the theorem community or others. And that's now something where you're competing in a positive some way. And you're not just making in group arguments about how pure you are, you know, with respect to your crypto, you're making outgroup arguments, which are converting folks from the outside world. And that's a very different tone. You don't just go and like scream at someone on the street randomly. If you buy bitcoin or whatever, that kind of doesn't work, I don't think right. Um, and so now you you actually are growing the pie for everybody. This is how I think about it. I think that's a it's a retrospectively obvious thing. But I think also potentially a novel mechanism that hasn't been done in the space so far.

Unknown Speaker  12:08  
Right? Religion creation. Yeah. Yeah.

Balaji Srinivasan  12:10  
So so so you know, the thing about that, like the religion point on second, like, um, you know, like, as a, as a tech person, as a rational person, as a, you know, you, you approach things from the direction of pure technology. And if startups are, like, 20%, religion or 30% of religion, crypto, it's interesting, what percentage you put it there, right? Why do I say starts or 20 or 30%? Well, for something like SpaceX, that's a collective hallucination. Oh, I can get to Mars, you know, I can build a rocket that's better than NASA. And like the entire United States of America, I can innovate better than all of these, you know, rocket scientists? Well, yeah, he, he did, and he could write, but at the beginning, that's a hallucination. You know, that's, that's something where you can't tell the difference between a really ambitious and you know, you know, intelligent entrepreneur, and someone who's a lunatic unless you're digging into the details of it, right. And Silicon Valley is now fairly attuned at doing that. But from the outside, it just looks like these are, you know, like equivalent, right? If you can't do the technical diligence and see this person who's aerospace and this person doesn't, I mean, of course, if someone's a serial entrepreneur, he argues in favor of them, you know, Alon had done had done other things before. But you know, that, you know, you don't pay pal, you done actually something even before that, like, cash was called is like, no, it was before that. Zip to That's right. That's right. Um, so what's my point, though? SpaceX is definitely more than zero percent religion, right? Tesla is definitely more than zero percent religion. And so I think some of the best tech companies, you know, Google and Facebook in their, in their heyday, right? Google was organized all the world's information and Facebook was connected world, and folks really, really believed in that mission. It was missionary, not just mercenary, you know, as the saying goes, that that's a cliche, but it's, it's no less true for being a cliche. So now the next step is I think, you know, what's incredible with crypto is you can turn belief into something that's publicly traded, right? The strength of belief, the strength of hotaling can be quantified and measured. Okay, across all these markets, now, there's manipulation, these prices, I'm not, I'm not disputing that. But you know, broadly speaking, you can actually quantify strength of belief. It's not just a number of adherence, but also the strength of belief of each there and right. And that's completely new. And it's something that does actually give collective benefits. Because if any one person breaks and sells, other folks suffer, you know, the consequences. And conversely, if one person holds, and everybody can hallucinate their way into what's holding for a long time, it may all benefit everybody. Now, it's not 100% religion, because obviously you need to have the cryptography work, you know, you need to have the technology work to be able to transfer back and forth and so on and so forth. But I think this is something which is, you know, you can't discount the community or the religious or whatever aspect of this, you might use another term for it. You might call it belief You might call it zeal or alignment. Right. But But I think that's a very important part of this whole space. And that's, that takes stuff that's in normal technology and just level set up, you know?

Unknown Speaker  15:11  
Yeah, absolutely.

Unknown Speaker  15:13  
So, two things. So one thing you mentioned earlier was curation. So that's a very interesting sort of concept in the decentralized world where I think people think about crypto anarchy, and you know, you can kind of do it everyone, everything's permissionless, whereas you're actually describing with these sub communities in the sort of top coat community is this idea of like a very curated sort of curated system, right. So

Unknown Speaker  15:41  
why? I guess like,

Unknown Speaker  15:45  
yeah, I think in like, in like crypto and crypto people are generally interested in like governance, and they they're, they're wary of like a single leader making all the decisions and like, who governs the government? The governors, right.

Balaji Srinivasan  15:57  
So So it's interesting, because something I tweeted the other day, and I've been thinking about is, maybe centralization is actually also under explored in the design space. Okay. And let me explain what I mean by that. Um, so going back to a lawn, right, the lawn has 30 million something followers on Twitter. Okay. And for the most part, he just sends the memes. But what if there was some way for him to? Have those folks help get to Mars faster? Right? Could he somehow issue them instructions? Could he MapReduce out some work? Right? Could he give them something which would take you know, like, you know, a day for 30 million people but might take 10 years for for other people, right? We know that's possible with Mechanical Turk. Right. But I think we're at the very, very beginning of collaborative work on the internet, the very beginning of it, you know, where you've seen this, I'll give you some examples, people can sometimes come together and author a Google Doc, they can sometimes author a Wikipedia page after a big accident. There's something you know, like, like a big tragedy or something like that, that Wikipedia page often comes together very fast. If you've seen that, right. Um, if you've seen this something a little more obscure, but it's called massively. I think it's massively multiplayer mathematics or massively parallel mathematics, something like that. This started in 2009, where a mathematician prominent observation put out an unsolved math problem. And what they found was a bunch of mathematicians all on the same blog, were basically passing the ball to each other and moving the ball forward. And they actually were able to solve unsolved math problems by putting a bunch of mathematical minds together, right. And so we start to go from, you know, the mob mentality to the wisdom of crowds, you know, so the mob mentality is the Twitter mob. But I think the opposite of that is the wisdom of crowds, where you get collective work, collaborative work, and so on. So So what, how do I relate that to centralization. But I think actually, a lot of institutions today are actually a weird hybrid of the optics of decentralization, and much of the substance of centralization, but they're stuck in kind of the middle, they can't just own it and be like, this is centralized if you're here, on your business, basically, fitting into a hierarchal command and control structure. And that's because exit isn't strong enough. But in a world, okay, where crypto totally wins. And you can exit from anything and it's totally liquid. Now, the legitimacy of being part of a state, if you don't like it, you can leave instantly, right? You can move out all your crypto, you can move out, you know, your your followers or whatever, from a social network, your ability to exit your right to exit is sacrosanct. Right? And if you can exit will, you know, then that actually makes you more likely to trust the CEO, potentially, right? In the sense of, if you if you have a choice, if at every point in time you have made that choice to stay, okay, then you're making the choice to fit into this hierarchical structure for your mutual benefit, right? Because you think, Okay, this person, my manager, or CEO, or, you know, this LP or whoever's giving instructions on and I can do better together than I would do on my own right, or I believe in the mission or some combination of those things, right. So I actually think that as you factor out, the decentralization, the centralization, you will both get this decentralized kind of demilitarized area, and you will get highly highly, highly centralized organizations, right? If you built something that was a hierarchical structure, not the social graph, but the social tree, okay, where you have a node and you have like, folks who fold into that, and folks who fold into that, like Uber is kind of like v zero of that right where you you have like, local managers of each city and then they have drivers within that. I think there's so much more that can be done with that. One way of putting it is that's like a missing box in the in the social network diagram, because you have symmetric social, which is Facebook, and you have asymmetric social which is Twitter, right? We have followers and it's not necessarily you know, you follow them. They may not follow you back. You have symmetric professional which is LinkedIn. We don't have a symmetric professional. Right? We don't have the corporate structure online. And crypto actually allows that to happen, because now you can put payments across every country, right? You can have a cap table that scales across every country, you can put like incorporation terms like a smart contract and Corporation terms on chain, you know, so the concept of thousand x corporations, like we're now we've got the technical infrastructure for that, right? So you can actually build a community that's not like a normal company, where you have a million people all around the world working towards something that hasn't really happened before. Okay, that's like, that's why I think this crypto thing hasn't really gotten started yet. And centralization is also under explored in the design space.

Unknown Speaker  20:42  
Go ahead. That's super. You said Go ahead. And when you're done, go ahead. Yes.

Unknown Speaker  20:48  
So that's, that's super interesting. And I wanted to I want to dig in a little bit into the build the middle stuff, the bit building. And I think it's, it's one thing to create a system where folks are hot, like incentivizing other folks to huddle, and you kind of share that meme. It's another thing to then translate that into, like, work for that specific community. Like, I'd say, like, what applications look like? Do they specifically support things that are purely financial or do or do the sort of branch out and just serve the sort of citizens of that sort of sub community? Like, I guess, how do you get people to do?

Balaji Srinivasan  21:28  
Yeah, so basically, what you're asking is, what is the definition of useful work for each, like community? Right, right. And I'd say that's set by the community moderator. Okay. So for example, let's say it's a zero knowledge community, let's say, Eli, Ben sasse, in stark, where is the moderator of that community? Right? Um, then his definition of useful work would be on Have you published some source code on zero knowledge? Have you published a paper on zero knowledge? Have you done a code review of it? Have you provided useful comments, something like that, right. And you can imagine a karma system, you know, a crypto karma system within that there's lots of different mechanisms within each sub Nakamoto. And yet, when I say iterate on that, for something like stacks, like the block stack community, it could be, have you built any apps can be set up with a developer key, you could have a whole series of like, onboarding milestones, right? Where people level up and they get, like more stacks and so on for doing this. Now, you know, that's similar to which is coin base earn, right? Um, so, you know, we sold, some of you folks may know, we sold earn calm to coin base, we integrated it, and over last year, which is not as well known in the community, you know, Coinbase, earn has done almost $400 million in sales. And the reason it's done so much is all of these projects that have printed cryptocurrencies, you know, they're sitting on this quasi Monopoly money, you know, it's like, it's like a radioactive isotope, it will decay unless they can build a community with it. Okay. And if they try to use that, that money to go and run ads on Google and Facebook, well, what happens? You know, like, first, they have to sell that crypto, which tanks a price for all existing users to attract new ones. So existing and new are misaligned. Okay. important concept. Now, because Google or Facebook only accept USD for the most part, or Fiat. A number two is a Google Facebook may not let you even run ads as a crypto company. And number three, is it they won't? They won't? Yeah, frequently, right? I've tried. Yeah. And number three is at the end of the funnel, what are you doing, you're sending them to an exchange anyway. Yeah. So instead, a lot of these coins come to Coinbase earn, and they take $10 million in their crypto. And now it's like a crypto aware channel. So the channel understands crypto and the users value it. So for example, $15 million in dye, so folks go and take out decentralized loans. And, and critically, they don't just get the dye that do the tutorial. So if you've seen maker scan.io, right, there's an enormous surge in people opening up these these cdp's, these collateralized debt positions, these decentralized loans, because Coinbase basically gave them some dye from from maker dow maker dot project to learn how to do this. Right. And with z cash, they did a similar thing where you learned how to send a shielded transaction, and you got some crypto, okay. And, and so these videos have an blockstack did something very similar, right? So I think that's cool. Because it's not just an airdrop where you drop undifferentiated coins into somebody's inbox. And you, you know, hey, go and figure out how to use these. Instead, this is a step by step by step walkthrough where every single person who, who does this gain some crypto while learning how to use that crypto. And now one of the things that's very useful to the projects as well, because now, like if somebody decides to buy that token or coin at the end of it, well guess what, 99% plus of people at coin base, earn the token before buying it. And so clearly, they saw the utility of it, and they bought it and so you establish utility prior to purchase, which is useful for you know, various purposes, including potentially regulatory reasons, insofar as regulators think that establishment of utilities is useful. Um, so I think that's, that's something Which is like I wouldn't even say v1, it's like the two of this, where you sort of define a useful work for that community, right? This coin has said, Hey, we'd like people to learn how to do zero knowledge transactions, or this or private transactions. This coin has said, okay, we want to figure out how to get people to learn decentralized loans. And you could scale that such that you have 100 tasks like that, which build the community up, and you're paying from your crypto to do that. Hopefully, those tasks increase value in the use cases in the price of crypto. So you had a million dollars, you give away 500 K and now you've got $2 million left because the price increase for x ideal case,

Unknown Speaker  25:37  
yeah, for sure. It's like distribution, education, activation are all incredibly important. You're essentially like installing an idea into people's minds through the sort of crypto distribution company with some some work. Really good segue actually going from sort of tasks to actually outside investment coming in and actually like tilling the soil and fertilizing it, so to speak. I feel like there's like a transition point where where that happens in a ecosystem starts to take on a life of its own, you see, like consensus, sort of investing in like kind of investing in Project investing in projects to make the Ethereum community sort of better off. And I wanted to relay this to a tweet you had recently, which was, essentially we're in like, the blogger, era of investing. And soon, it's gonna be like a Twitter era investing where like, very, very few people are actually investing, but really everyone will become an investor. So like, I wanted to kind of get your take on that your take on like, wealth creation in crypto and investing, and what you think is going to happen there because I think that goes sort of hand in hand with ecosystem development. Yep.

Balaji Srinivasan  26:47  
Yeah. So I do think we're going to eventually get a literal crypto Twitter, where everybody, any Twitter like thing, um, you know, so this, so we have, we have another version of this actually, like a shouldn't say, v1, but an intermediate version that just came out of Angeles. Um, this is a concept called dollars, which are dollar weighted followers. Okay. And so, you know, I'm setting up this only for accredited investors. Actually, let me just say, one can set up a fund on angellist. Now, which allows folks to follow you with their dollars. Okay. And it's like continuous fundraising. And so Nevada is the first person to have one of these, okay? And so now, you can have this person, maybe they can only pledge 1000 bucks, and they're pushing pledges, 10,000 or 50,000? or what have you, right. So now you have dollar way to followers, and you've got $2 million a month that you're investing in startups as those things kind of accumulate? Right? That's cool. And I think I think that's an important one that's going to scale for the next few years at a minimum. And eventually, you know, as we get more and more iterations on this, something like that dynamic with the dollars dollar dollar way to followers, will will happen for not, you know, the million, 2 million, 5 million people on angellist. But a billion people, like everybody, if, if, if, you know, the internet turned everybody into publishers on crypto is going to turn everybody into investors. And we've already seen that, in the sense of, we've probably at least text, the number of folks who understand what depth charts are, you know, who can understand you know, candlestick charts, and, and all those kinds of things which are just pasted in on Twitter. And people have context, it's amazing how many people have learned like, finance concepts from from Twitter, which is usually and from Coinbase pro and things like that, which was before just the domain of folks that have Bloomberg terminal, which is much more, you know, restricted group of people, a few hundred thousand people at a Bloomberg terminal. And I think we haven't even started on that once we get to like, true crypto Twitter. Well, rather than let's say, some policeman or teacher having their savings, go to a pension fund, who then puts it into a VC, who then goes and puts it into a startup, right? on everything in between becomes totally liquid and dynamic, right? So that cop, if they choose, of course, they can still go to the pension fund to the VC to the startup to you know, the banker to the exit or whatever, right? Like it's like multiple layers of intermediary. Or if that cop so chooses, now, they can still choose, I'm not saying they don't have the legacy path, just like you can choose still to keep your money in the bank, right. And many people will choose some hybrid of money in the bank and money and in coin base, or whatever and money on their local computer. You can still choose to be in that pension fund. But you can also choose just go around direct to a VC or an angel and follow them or just do directly yourself into that coin. Okay, that's new. And that's really interesting. And one of the things that, that I think about a lot is, in general, folks are the, you know, they've been psychologically psychology experiments on this kind of thing. But folks are primed for egalitarianism when they are being selected, and they're primed for elitism when they are doing the selecting, right. So, you know, of course, no one wants to, you know, have someone shut the door in their face for some reason. So like, Whoa, wait, why aren't you picking me, you know, like you want, you want to have an equal shot, when they're doing the pick game, when they are the selecting, they don't want a random link on Google, they want the 10 best links, they want the number one link, right? They don't want a random school for their kid or a mediocre school, even they want the best school, right? They don't want a random doctor, they want the best doctor, okay? And they don't want a random investment, they want the best investment. Okay. So what happens is, when you turn everybody into investors, that's a massive psychology shift, like on the entire internet, where now people are actually thinking about the downside, as well as the upside. They're thinking about wealth creation, value creation, is a way of essentially exporting Silicon Valley's culture worldwide. Okay, massive consequences for all kinds of things. But it also means that folks start to understand how hard it is to make money is not easy to make money, right. Um, one way I think about that is actually, there's a difference between the East Coast and West Coast, you know, lots of differences. But one particular one is encapsulated. In these coasts, it's all about conflict of interest on the west coast, frequently, it's about put your money where your mouth is. Now, what's interesting about that conflict of interest doctrine states that if you have an investment in something, your word is less credible. And put your money where your mouth is says, unless you have an investment in something, your word is less credible. Now that's actually that's like a, almost like an optical illusion as you switch your head back and forth between those two modes, right? And I'd say the fundamental difference is the East Coast mentality is frequently that profit is a function of sufficient malevolence.

Okay, so meaning if you're mean enough, you can make a ton of money. And the only reason that this person has chosen not to make a ton of money is that they're not mean enough. Okay. Now, in the East Coast environment, where people literally get a license to print money, you know, which is what a bank often has, right? They can, they can create new money with loans and so on. And where a lot of deals are zero sum, right? You know, I this is tongue in cheek, I have this tweet on this, but Wall Street's the best of the East Coast, because they're at least euro song. Haha. Okay, I think it's funny. Um, so. So you know, it context where you can get a license for money or where you are, you know, in a zero sum environment. Yeah, sometimes just being meter does correlate with making more money. But there's a totally different way, which is actually creating wealth, right? For example, primary investment versus secondary investment, you know, if your money is going into the company, well, it better create new products, employ people, and so on and so forth. If it's a secondary transaction, that's still important because it affects the stock price, and the stock price affects recruiting and so on. But it's not like primary capital going into the company, right? So the reason I say this is, I think we're going to see a huge psychology shift, as you increase the number of investors 10 or 100 x now, it's not all positive. Okay. So this is something that, you know, Patrick knife talked about, but, you know, I used to think that the kind of just riff Yeah, okay, all right, good riff away. So I used to think that the internet was all good. And the reason I thought it was all good, is, you know, coming out of academia is like, it's papers. It's, it's like, you know, new open source code, it's math, it's all this awesome stuff, right? Um, but now I've increasingly come to the conclusion that the internet increases variance. Okay. And what it does it results in both extreme good and extreme bad. And, and you might ask, what's the mechanism for that? Let me give you some examples first, then get to the mechanism. One example. You go from 30 minute sitcoms, to 32nd YouTube clips, and 30 episode, Netflix binges. Okay, another example, you go from someone who's, you know, working nine to five their whole life to a, you know, 30 something feel son, or a 20 something, you know, startup CEO, right, huge variance in professional outcome. third example, you go from communities like this massively mathematics, you know, kind of thing where lots of mathematicians get together to solve problem to communities of like Twitter mobs and trolls and nasty people and whatnot, right. And I think the reason this happens, and this is true, even in areas you wouldn't expect, for example, Uber rides, when you look at the distribution of Uber rides, they're both much shorter, they've got like some rides that are like one minute, and much longer some rides that are like two hours relative to traditional taxi cabs. Okay. So in every single domain, where you look at the Internet, it just increases variants, it it like releases the hidden variants that was maybe like homogenized or stopped before, right. And that and the reason I think that happens is, you know, people have heard this before the internet disintermediate. It's, it removes mediators, and in removing those mediators, it removes moderators, enter who's moderation in both senses of the term? Okay, so before it used to be let me see if I can hold this up so I can move my hands. Okay. Um, okay. Yeah, fine. All right. Let's try that. Okay. So here's fucking sorry.

Unknown Speaker  34:50  
You can say fuck.

Balaji Srinivasan  34:51  
Alright, great. So, so before you had, you know, let's say people on this side, people on this side, there was a moderator, and that moderator could exclude this party or it could actually That party and it would it filter and stop people from connecting directly. Once anybody can connect to anybody else, right, you can get communities that the moderator previously would have excluded. Okay, so the disintermediation, disintermediation is de moderation as well.

Unknown Speaker  35:14  
Okay, so, oh my god, this is totally gonna become a meme you have gloves on, and I'm holding a mic for

Balaji Srinivasan  35:19  
you. All right, thanks. Um, by the way, like, you know,

Unknown Speaker  35:24  
I think you should probably touch on that. It's like,

Balaji Srinivasan  35:26  
yeah, so it's funny, like seleucus and I were talking about this. And he had the same reaction I did, which is, uh, you know, the, this virus thing is on? what's right, we put this Okay, let me just give the Bitcoin analogy first, then go virus. I'm in 2009. It was insane to say Bitcoin was going to go to a million dollars. Like how funny like is one of the first post was like, oh, Bitcoin will be like, a 10 million bucks, right? That was freaking insane. That kind of prediction at the beginning. Um, and it's also pretty insane to say, Oh, it's gonna go to 10,000 bucks. Okay. But condition, you know, in this random walk, right? In the stochastic process, you know, it's gone up and down, people have lost 80%, and so on. But it's being steadily upward and conditional. On the price getting to $10,000 $10 million is a lot more likely. Right? If you guys know, conditional probability, there's a renormalization that happens, where if the improbable is actually in your rearview mirror, if the improbable is already happened, the insane becomes merely improbable. Okay. And and we have seen this kind of thing happening where extremely, like our priori, unlikely events have happened. There probably is now 1.0, right? Bitcoin 10,000 is, is here, probability is 1.0. Now, you know, maybe it's drops to 8000, tomorrow, whatever, but it's no longer like a lunatic prediction. It's just like, oh, last Wednesday's price or something like that, right? I don't know the exact date, you understand, I'm saying. So to get to 100,000 is really not that much of a stretch, right to get to a million is not that much of a stretch. I mean, maybe it'll happen, it'll take 15 years, but it's certainly not like a lunatic prediction. So apply that to a pandemic, right? Um, you know, with the start of any pandemic, to imagine you're getting to a million people is, is actually very improbable. But conditional on getting to 50,000 people and being in 26 countries. And all the stats you've seen, it's a lot less improbable, is really the same logic of kind of conditional probability and renormalization. Right. And it's actually very similar. I mean, there's lots of other arguments and so on, I can give for it. But this is something I take as seriously as I did when I'm, you know, seriously diligence, crypto, when I saw, you know, Bitcoin, you know, at like sub $10 and aetherium. You know, at the very beginning, there's something which, unfortunately, when we talk about the internet being really bad and really good, most of the exponentials that you bet on as an investor are really good if they work, you know, 99% of the time when I'm diligence, seeing something I'm not definitely not perfect, but I've been being a seed investor and early investor in, in, in superhuman and cameo and in lambda school, a bunch of other things besides the crypto stuff. Not always right, certainly, but have had some pretty pretty decent investments. I think I'm all the things I'm like, Oh, I'm, I feel glad about this. If this is a future that happens, I feel good. You know, like, it may not happen, but I'm rooting for it. This is the first exponential i have not been rooting for, but I think has a chance of happening.

Unknown Speaker  38:23  
I think it sounds like you're understating that.

Balaji Srinivasan  38:26  
I mean, I like everything is zero winning. There's your win in, in like,

Unknown Speaker  38:33  
you have a higher confidence than you would like in a very negative

Balaji Srinivasan  38:36  
outcome. Basically, every time that the number of cases increases, like 10 X, your probability of the worst scenario increases. Um, so let me put it like that, right. I know that's a downer. Yeah. Sure.

Unknown Speaker  38:53  
Have you finished your finish the thought on the crypto variants thing I can only recall and then we'll open up the question shark.

Balaji Srinivasan  38:59  
Sure. So, um, so the internet increases variance. Right. And I realized that it's, it's our job to make sure like, I think it's on the flip side of the internet is always good is where I think a lot of the East Coast is and by the way, when I say East Coast, I'm sure some of you folks I know blockstack has offices in New York, you don't count. Okay. Um, you know, like, like, it's a mentality, right? It's, it's something where there's East Coast test, tech companies and West Coast people with an East Coast attitude. It's not just geographical. You guys understand what I mean. But these guys mentality is now tech is always bad. Right? And that's also not true. You know, what I think we need to do is basically, once you've exploded and increase all this variance, we need to create filters such that opt in filters crucially, okay, but opt in filters that just on our high pass filters that only pass the good right. When I say high pass in electrical engineering, for example. There's various kinds of filters and The frequency domain, low pass bandpass High Pass. And this just analogy, a high pass filter only allows signals of above a certain frequency through, right. And so what you want here is filters of many different kinds that allow signals of only a certain quality through. This is the huge thing that is missing from social media today, where for a lot of different reasons, it should become a food fight. And there isn't that high pass kind of thing. So I think it's incumbent upon us as early adopters in the space where you're enriched for folks who are who are in it for the right reasons, I think, you know, who are technologists who are finance ears, who are, you know, investors who are pro freedom and so on and so forth, to build a future that you want to see and and recognize that this is also genuinely also empowering bad actors as well as really good ones, okay. And we want to figure out what those filters are in the world.

Transcribed by https://otter.ai
