Unknown Speaker  0:04  
Hey everyone, I'm Alice Lloyd George

Unknown Speaker  0:06  
and you're listening to flux, a show about the pioneers building the future. Welcome back. Joining me today is Balaji Srinivasan, the CEO of 21. biology is a well known name in Silicon Valley, in part because he's a rare combination of both a successful entrepreneur and a successful academic. Balaji is a Stanford lifer. He holds more degrees than I can count bs his MS is PhDs in electrical and chemical engineering. He's also being a professor at Stanford teaching data mining statistics and computational biology, and now runs a wildly popular MOOC, or massively open online course, they're teaching students how to build Bitcoin enabled applications. Previously, he was co founder and CTO of council, founded in 2008, with his brother, where he developed a new pre pregnancy test for inheritable diseases, such as sickle cell anemia, the company began the Stanford dorm room and quickly became one of the largest clinical genome centers in the world. And their technology is now used to screen 4% of all American pregnancies. After five years, he then step back to work on other areas and became a general partner at VC firm Andreessen Horowitz in 2013. Balaji has been deep in the cryptocurrency world, and for the last three years, he's been building 21, a San Francisco based company working on a machine payable web. So 21 has built the software that makes it super easy to work with Bitcoin over HTTP, which basically means they want to rewire the internet with Bitcoin. We invested in 21, two years ago, and I've had the pleasure of getting to know Balaji through the company. He's a brilliant founder and big thinker, always on T shirt and hoodie, You'll never catch him in a suit and tie. And he's a lot of fun to talk to. So welcome, Balaji. We're excited to have you here today. Let's dive right in. You've built a developer toolkit that makes it easy for engineers to build Bitcoin enabled applications. So what does that mean? And what might some of those applications look like?

Unknown Speaker  2:14  
So basically, our general thought and philosophy is to try to make Bitcoin, a first class citizen within the Linux environment, working with decentralized anything is hard. And if you can just abstract and many of the things that Bitcoin provides, you can actually start to bake additional currency into the command line into applications and into the developer experience. So So that's sort of how we've been thinking about, you know, the developer toolkit. And so that's a free and open source thing, you can download it, I'm at 21, and basically allows you to do, you know, micro payments with potential currencies. And we've also done is we've taken that And recently, we've developed a first class application on that basis, which pays people micro payments for doing micro tasks. So that's a you know, you can now click buttons to make money, even relatively small quantities of money on using the software.

Unknown Speaker  3:10  
So it's generally said that Bitcoin is great for transactions that need to be either very fast, international, automated, very large, or very small. You're really focused on the last days, the very small, what kind of micro tasks can we now monetize, that we couldn't before?

Unknown Speaker  3:25  
One of the big things right now, the big question is, what kinds of products are more feasible today with digital currency than they were before? And one thing I think a lot about is okay, how do you actually get folks who are not necessarily committed to digital currency? Who do not necessarily see a speculative value? How do you get them to actually, you know, use Bitcoin or buy bitcoin? And we think that the ability to use digital currency for getting people to do micro tasks may be that first use, and I can get into that. But are you familiar with Amazon Mechanical Turk?

Unknown Speaker  4:11  
Yes, but why don't you explain what that is?

Unknown Speaker  4:13  
Sure. So that's a product that's been around for about 10 years. And basically, what it is, is a website where you can just click some buttons and, you know, put in your bank account, and, you know, basically do tasks online to make small amounts of money. And people will use it, for example, for getting surveys filled out for, you know, doing machine learning, labeling, like so labeling photos, is cat or dog, that type of thing. Okay, so that's been around for 1011 years, but it has many limitations. A big one from the payment side, which is that it takes, you know, 10 days before somebody receives their first payment on the site, and it's only actually available in two countries and That is us in India. But with digital currency and Bitcoin, in particular, anybody in any country can download this and we can instantly give them a Bitcoin address, and they can instantly start clicking buttons. And then within 10 minutes, they can receive some money. So, at least on the speed dimension on, that's something where digital currency really excels, then you combine that with some of the other properties, and you can start to actually get something where anybody who has a phone has a job, at least that's that's the ultimate vision on on that. And, and micropayments are the conduit by which we can give people money for doing small tasks on their phone.

Unknown Speaker  5:35  
And how big do you think is the market for these types of tops.

Unknown Speaker  5:38  
So right now, Mechanical Turk is mostly unskilled labor. So those tasks, you know, are relatively low pay, sir, like on the order of $6. Now, but we think this market could actually be quite large. And the reason is that by adding on, you know, social and that is fighting identity. And by adding skills, you can now start to rent out much higher value time. So for example, you could pay, you know, $100, for Marc Andreessen to respond to your email, right, that's like a micro test. Or you could pay $1,000 to get 1000 San Franciscans to install your app, when you advertise to somebody, they don't get a cut of it. When you send a LinkedIn in mail, somebody, they don't get a cut of it in digital currency makes that possible for the first time.

Unknown Speaker  6:23  
So you mentioned getting paid to open or to respond to emails, you've actually just launched that product called profiles, very exciting. Tell us how it works.

Unknown Speaker  6:33  
So the term profile is basically a way for you to charge people to contact you. And it's a it's an inbox that pays you. And you can keep the money on the people attach the messages they send, or you can do it into charity. And the basic idea here is that it is a placement for a public email address. If you put an email address on the web, you will quickly find that if you're a busy person and executive or you know a VC or investor of some kind, you will quickly find yourself saturated by a bunch of inbound emails. And some of them are good and useful, and some of them are not so much. And so what you'd like to do is apply some sort of ranking on these inbound messages. The current default ranking that we have is simply most recent first, but most recent first is not necessarily most important first. And so as an alternative to this ranking, this is by the most recent first you can rank them by the price, or the money attached to them.

Unknown Speaker  7:41  
So it's basically a marketplace to buy someone's time, or sell your in time, which I guess, sadly, for most of us is

Unknown Speaker  7:48  
stolen by the black hole that is the email inbox. That's right. The concept is, you know, you're in the back of an Uber or you're in a Starbucks, or you know, you are an airplane lounge. And if you have a little bit of time, you can look down, and you can answer messages and complete tasks to earn money.

Unknown Speaker  8:07  
So it makes sense logically that five minutes of my time's worth $1, five minutes, your time, maybe 100 bucks. But it does raise one question, which is, what does the world look like when everything is quantified and retail and price?

Unknown Speaker  8:21  
That is the world we live in to some extent in the sense that everybody does have a price. It's your hourly wage, your annual salary, you know, that does exist already. The second thing I'd say is that, in general, whenever you can replace a Soviet breadline with an American supermarket, you generally see significant gains. The reason for that is whenever you've got a queue, for example, in the Soviet Union, people used to queue up for bread. There's there's no economic value that's being generated. That is to say, you have 10 people in the queue. They're all just spending their time they're spending their life force essentially.

Unknown Speaker  8:52  
Yeah, I mean, this exists offline already. There's a market for TaskRabbit are willing to queue in line for you, which I'm definitely guilty of having used to say, get dinner reservations, I've actually seen some interesting hacks in places like China, if you're stuck in a traffic jam, say, on the outskirts of Beijing, there's a service where someone will come on a motorcycle and jump into the driver's seat of your vehicle. And then you go off on their motorcycle, and they'll sit in the traffic jam for you. So basically, a non technical, you know, offline way of addressing the same issue of pricing someone's time exactly where people will often, you know, talk about if you look at, you know, Poland today versus you know, 30 years ago or India today versus 30 years ago, obviously China today versus 3040 years ago, in general, the introduction of capitalism massively improved human welfare. So there's sort of edge cases and boundary conditions where you know, like, lack of,

Unknown Speaker  9:47  
you know, like markets might make a situation worse, but as a general rule, whenever you're talking about a scarce resource market generally make it better.

Unknown Speaker  9:54  
So that's the human in the loop side, allowing people to make money on on small Mechanical Turk type tasks. Let's talk about the automated machine to machine side, which is really exciting. You've referred to this as the coming of the third web. The idea being that the first web was the World Wide Web. So documents and hyperlinks between those documents. And the second was social where the nodes were people. And the links between them were friendships and relationships. And then the third web that you refer to the machine payable web, the nodes are basically computers, right? via a car, a fridge, a mobile phone, or what have you. And the linkage between them is micro payments, and they ping each other back and forth through API's. And can you explain why this idea of a machine payable web is so important?

Unknown Speaker  10:46  
So the concept of like the machine payable web is now very easy, I think with our software to make it possible for machines to rent out time from another party does not require the entry of a credit card, it is not required the entry of a bank account on machine a can pay machine B between countries, if you just imagine a dystopia, where every time you clicked on the link, you had to go through a signup process, then the web would actually be more like television, where rather than, you know, thousands and thousands of websites, it would be like, you know, maybe a few dozen television channels, the result would be that you click on a lot fewer links, because what that mean is that every single time that you try to reference one document from another documents, there'd be attacks on whether you could view the second document, and that tax would be measured in time. And that time has value and so it'd be a cost to you. So by analogy, that's sort of where API's are today. On in order for one API to call another API, in order for one machine to pay another machine, there has to be a manual signup process on, which is a significant tax on the court machine economy. You can't just trade between machines, there has to be this significant set of time. And what that does is it impose a ton of friction. And so that's only the most powerful API is things like stripe or things like you know, Amazon, or what have you actually crossed that threshold to actually be something that that you'd use, what we think is once you can actually really reduce the threshold of setting up a bill and relationship, it's very easy for two machines each other. And we think that's going to be an important thing over the next, you know, five to 10 years.

Unknown Speaker  12:32  
I mean, in theory, it should be huge.

Unknown Speaker  12:36  
And I'd like to share one of my favorite practical examples. So listeners can get a sense of where this might be used to say you drive your car into a parking garage, and unbeknownst to you, a real time auction would happen between your car and the garage for a parking spot. And the transaction would happen automatically, you just park get out of the car and leave. And the technical way to implement that would be Bitcoin. You don't need the approval of a legacy bank or telecom to manage that. It's all frictionless, it's decentralized. And there are a million cases like that. But Balaji the question I then have is, if suddenly every computer and smartphone and device and traffic light and car starts paying each other, there's a lot of transactions? And wouldn't it all collapse under the weight? How do you scale it and prevent the blockchain from being clogged and billions of tiny transactions?

Unknown Speaker  13:30  
Yeah, that's a really interesting question. And I would say currently on salt, um, I think for us, like the immediate answer is, we do our best to minimize traffic on the blockchain, where we are today with the blockchain is sort of where we were with the internet, around the time dial up, in the sense that, you know, when, when you had dial up internet, which was about 93, to the early 2000s, you basically had to write all code for internet company is in a consciously bandwidth constrained way. So in the same way, like, you know, in the era, we are today public blockchains we're in a fundamentally capacity constrained environment, right? The one Meg block size limit for Bitcoin. With that said, There workarounds, sort of like how you use a bar tabs, you just put down a bar tab, drink your drinks, eat your food, and then close it out. You turn a bunch of possible individual bills for each drink and each item of food into just two interactions. So there's techniques like this that reduced traffic on the public blockchain basically by pulling it into various kinds of private blockchains and then eventually settling it out. One version of that is a micro payment channel. Another version is sort of so called off chain transactions. But basically do is you record things on on some non public blockchain ledger and then settle it?

Unknown Speaker  14:51  
algae, why are you so passionate about Bitcoin and micro payments and all that? What is it that motivates you?

Unknown Speaker  14:59  
Well, The big thing that I think about a lot is another sound really random. But I think a lot about how Deng Xiaoping actually made China rich with injecting took over China in the mid late 70s, you know, the country was devastated after 30 years of communism, on, you know, the Red Guards, the Cultural Revolution, Great Leap Forward is basically like just just really a disaster. And so what he did was rather than tried to repeal, you know, communism across the entire country, he said, Okay, what if we just take a few areas, and we allow capitalism to be legal there? What if we can just, like try the experiment in these localized zones, see if it works, and then only if it does, then scale it out. So it was a way to sort of allow folks to, to opt into capitalism in a bounded way. Many Americans, many Westerners don't know exactly how China became rich, they sort of vaguely know used to be communist and then became capitalist, but mechanistically, special economic zones are probably China's, you know, most important cultural export. Because after those zones, you know, work in China, then a bunch of places in Asia started adopting them, like Vietnam and whatnot. And now they're adopted throughout the world. And they're even coming to the United States, for example, Pittsburgh, self driving cars zone, or the drone zone in North Dakota. And so these are becoming areas where previously unthinkable things, innovations are now legal.

Unknown Speaker  16:27  
So perhaps we'd be further ahead in the us if we allowed these unregulated pockets of experimentation and innovation.

Unknown Speaker  16:35  
You know, my experience in genomics, my experience in biomedicine made me realize just how much was held back by regulation. And I can point you to papers, which show working brain machine interface working, regeneration, working, sequencing, you know, all kinds of drugs and whatnot, that that work, at least at a very, very interesting prototype level in academia. But they're released to the market is impeded and obstructed by regulation. And there's a reason those regulations exist, which is that people are risk averse. And there's large populations. And, you know, maybe if you just fly a drone without a license to a crash somebody's backyard, and so on, and so forth. And so the key is to try to figure out how you can develop these zones, where the people who are living within them are, are knowledgeable and risk tolerant and have opted in to take the risk, and maybe it won't work. And then the rest of the world, however, can learn from their experience, whether it works or whether it doesn't, and then scale it out. One of the things that that I think a lot about is okay, so if, if this is how valuable it was in the physical world, what would that look like in the digital world, right? Like, if digital currency wins, if Bitcoin wins, it means the global opt out is possible. It means that anybody from anywhere can form an association with other people in the world, and they can have their own private economy and trade things back and forth, and they can see whether it works. And then if it does, then everybody else can benefit from it, but nobody can block them from doing no obsolete law. No, you know, 70 year old regulation can stop them. And so that's, that's why I'm passionate about the space is because it may potentially, you know, solve certain meta questions, right, like, so there's, you know, the question of, is this legal? And then the question of why why is this legal? What is the law forming process? You know, what is what is the process that even allows innovation to happen? And, and those meta questions, I think, essentially be answered on if we can build a world where digital currency bits, I

Unknown Speaker  18:36  
mean, seems to me, if it works, it will completely reshape the way we live work, think. But, you know, it's a Herculean task, rewiring the internet and human incentives. Do you like fighting the fight? And

Unknown Speaker  18:52  
or what do you like about being an entrepreneur, you know, there's this concept of, well, you can work 80 hours a week, but you can pick which 80 hours those are, that's part of it. A second aspect is, there's there's certain kind of personality that will work extremely hard, and tolerate a great deal of stress, if they have a certain degree of creative freedom. And that's part of it as well. And but the third, and maybe the most important is that there are certain things that maybe only you can bring into the world and you've got sort of an ideological mission to sort of bring those things about, and for me means streaming digital currency is pretty important. I think it'll advance you know, human welfare. And and so that more than anything else is sort of what I think drives an entrepreneur is there's something that you really need to see happen in the world and you're willing to tolerate a great amounts of stuff together.

Unknown Speaker  19:51  
So you have a vision and no one else can execute it. And in your case, probably no one else necessarily has that vision. I mean, a lot of us entrepreneurs have copycat ideas, to be honest, but you have a lot of genuinely original ideas. In fact, I remember Marc Andreessen saying that you have, quote, the highest output per minute of new ideas of anyone he's ever met.

Unknown Speaker  20:15  
Well, I mean, I wouldn't quote myself on the back. I appreciate, you know, Mark's comments, I appreciate your comments. You know, it's easy to generate yours, it's hard to actually execute on them and turn them into large businesses. I've been fortunate to do that, you know, a few times in my life. But it's never easy.

Unknown Speaker  20:32  
Speaking of executing on ideas, you're sitting in the middle of the tech Mecca. When you look around, what do you think of the other businesses you see being built? Do you agree with the statement that Silicon Valley is increasingly insular and building products for itself, and maybe not solving more pressing human needs?

Unknown Speaker  20:52  
Oh, I disagree with that, in the sense that, like Silicon Valley is, you know, it's a culture exportar. So when the last time Harvard imitated somebody else, well, Harvard is now imitating Stanford, it's imitating, you know, Y Combinator, it's got incubators, and so on. And those edges originate there. Those ideas were successful, and they originated 3000 miles away. And that's why, you know, Singapore now has, you know, incubators, and Russia has VC funds, and Coca Cola has got a VC fund and right, everybody is doing these things that Silicon Valley has been dreaming up. And so I think that really strikes against the idea that Silicon Valley is very insular, and what happens? Um, with that said, Why would I still advise getting out of, you know, Silicon Valley, if one can ask her critically after one has built a network here? The reason I would advise it is just from a cost standpoint, Silicon Valley is the technology capital of the world. But it's very expensive to live here. And if you haven't yet made it in your career, you will find your personal run rate gobbled up by the price of living gear, and that's not going to change anytime soon, because it's a peninsula.

Unknown Speaker  21:56  
So what's the alternative? You move to the Midwest? Or Tahiti and work remotely? or What advice would you give to a young tech minded kid graduating from college?

Unknown Speaker  22:07  
It is, I think, very useful to really, really maximize your personal runway, I think very few people think about things in those terms. But your single most important metric as an individual is your personal runway, which is your savings divided by your personal burn rate. And everybody thinks about, you know, oh, let me maximize my income or maximize my exit or, or what have you. But very, very few people think about a savings or be reducing spending, they're almost anti American to think about. But that's definitely something that's like an Asian, you know, slash Indian culture, you know, thing to think about, right? Like, what's what's really interesting about that is it's completely different from, you know, what is taught to you in school in the US, which is basically, is getting large debt by taking on a student loan and getting larger debt by taking on a mortgage. And I advise against both of those things. And that's why I work really hard that first year and and build that network, build those connections. And then, you know, you have sort of a deterministic path to a few hundred thousand dollars in savings, and a few years of runway, and then you don't even need Angel funding on you. You're basically now like, financially independent once you've got a few months or years of personal runway, you're in very, very good condition.

Unknown Speaker  23:15  
It's an interesting life strategy. Yeah, too late for me, perhaps since I live in New York, which still boasts a more insane cost of living than even San Francisco, but valuable advice that I will pass along to my whippersnappers younger siblings. Okay, final question. Balaji, putting on your VC investing hat for just a minute. Besides blockchain at scale, if you could see any new technology in your lifetime,

Unknown Speaker  23:40  
what would it be? So I think the most important is life extension. And by life extension, I don't mean just like living as if one was 80 years old forever, but actually youth extension to living as if you were 25 years old forever? Yes, the purpose of technology is to eliminate scarcity, then the ultimate purpose of technology is to eliminate mortality. So what do we mean by that? Well, every new technology is usually Okay, this is better, this is faster, this is cheaper. Ultimately, you are talking about using less human time, less human life force effectively, you know, then than the preceding technology. And so if you can increase human lifespan, especially human productive lifespan, well, that's like the greatest reduction in scarcity that there is,

Unknown Speaker  24:26  
well, human time is the most scarce resource.

Unknown Speaker  24:28  
Exactly right. And I kind of think Bitcoin is related to this because it allows you to potentially globally unblock regulation. And if that happens, then you can get all the experiments that are necessary to move things forward. Other people blocking you and I think that's how we can get to like attention.

Unknown Speaker  24:43  
And if you could personally choose when you're going to die, or if you could live forever. Would you be interested in that

Unknown Speaker  24:50  
as well? Yeah, of course. I mean, like, I actually I just find it really funny when people are like, Oh, I don't want to live forever. You know, life extension is weird. I'm like, Okay, do you look look both ways before crossing the street. You know, they'll usually say yes. Well, guess what, you just use the life extension technology?

Unknown Speaker  25:04  
Well, I'm actually signed up for cryogenic freezing, and I get a lot of pushback when it comes up in conversation. There's quite a lot of hostility to it.

Unknown Speaker  25:13  
Yeah. I mean, I think people's Express preference is often different from their actual preference. The reason that people call life extension crazy or whatever, is because it's not actually available. And if it was, then I think people would flock to it pretty rapidly. Um, and I mean, obviously, there's religious considerations and so on, but, you know, okay, if someone wants to die, be my guest. I don't want to

Unknown Speaker  25:36  
Okay, well, Balaji, we've covered a lot of ground. And I'd love nothing more than to fall down an endless rabbit hole of topics with you. But let's stop here for today. Really great chatting. Thank you for coming on. listeners, go to 20 one.co and clean your personal profile right now, and you can start getting paid to read your email. So what did you think of today's episode? Are you ready for your devices to start talking to each other and paying each other. As always, I'd love your feedback. If you have a favorite frontier founder send them my way. Our email is flux podcast@gmail.com. And please Like our Facebook page flux feed, and follow us on Twitter and medium under the handle at the flux Podcast, where we publish full transcripts of every conversation, and all the important links so that you can dig into each topic. Tune in next week to learn all about CRISPR and what it means to start editing our genes.

Transcribed by https://otter.ai
