Balaji Srinivasan  0:05  
I'm going to talk today about the future trading. My name is Balaji Srinivasan at Balaji. s on Twitter. I know seemingly like half the people in this room. It's great. Formerly CTO of Coinbase and GP at a16z. And I want to let the folks here introduce themselves. So you're going to go first.

Unknown Speaker  0:21  
Thank you. So I'm Florian from fundament. Fundamental has made quite the news recently, because we've launched the first fully unrestricted security token on the public aetherium network. It represents a real estate bond, we're issuing 200 and 50 million of them. And it's based on the ERC 20 standard, it's vanilla ERC 20 token contract. And we figured out a recipe where we get full approval to do that such an issuance by the German financial market authority, enabling us to sell this to any investment worldwide with a minimum investment of one euro. And we plan to apply this recipe to many more assets, like private equity, VC, shipping, and all things always based on a fund structure. So what we do fundament Thank you

Unknown Speaker  1:11  
Well, so I'm well, I'm the CEO of diversify, which is a decentralized exchange. Formerly, I was working a bit for next and then launched eath FinEx, as a hybrid, centralized decentralized exchange. And we announced about a month ago that we were, we decided it was time to close down the centralized side of ether next, and spin out and focus only on decentralized exchanges. And given where we see the position of the technology now being and what's going to come in the next year or two years, and diverse by now we'll be focusing on, on, on figuring out reducing costs, and scaling, decentralized exchange, starting from the existing platform that we're operating, and then launching also several new platforms.

Balaji Srinivasan  1:56  
In part,

Unknown Speaker  1:57  
and I'm Bartok shecky. From maker dow, I'm a Product Owner for the oiss Tex trading protocol, I'd say it's a decentralized exchange that today, I'd say that it's by far the biggest liquidity pool on each die market which powers defy. And if today, it's the major front end for that that's actually using our EZ Tex protocol. And I would, I would consider rec, DAX, as part of the larger makerdao ecosystem alongside things like Oracle's and keeper network and a couple of other components, which sort of actually necessary for the core protocol to run properly.

Balaji Srinivasan  2:50  
Awesome. All right. So we're going to go through just a few questions here. So why don't we just go kind of an order? So Florian, where do you see crypto exchanges in one year and five years? What's your vision for the near and medium term future.

Unknown Speaker  3:06  
So I think crypto exchanges will in general become more and more commonplace for more and more mainstream audience. Since we issue security token, we it's kind of a new crypto assets. And there are currently no regulated centralized exchanges for these assets. So effectively, they cannot be traded. So we are actually building on decentralized exchanges, to fill this gap until there is a regulated venue. And the hope is really that in this timeframe, which could be up to a year, decentralized exchanges will get so good that maybe we won't even need the really centralized versions of it anymore.

Unknown Speaker  3:49  
Well, so I would say, we really see that I think decentralized exchanges are starting to prove the concept, it's now clear that we will have better exchanges coming out of the technology has been built here. And actually not just for cryptocurrencies, but for settlement of all sorts of assets and the kind of the kind of developments that are happening here. And I think, as Abby, who was saying will build better exchanges and better, better settlement layers, eventually for trading traditional assets, I think in the short term, say the next year. I mean, the reality is that except for niche types of arbitrage, I think most decentralized exchanges aren't going to, you know, become mainstream. They're not they're not they're not able to offer the experience that you'd need to ever compete with centralized cryptocurrencies, exchanges, and certainly not outside of this industry. But that will change very fast because it's now it's now essentially a cost problem rather than a proof of technology problem. And that will mean that over the next five years, I think we will see fundamentally decentralized exchanges start to take over and the reason for that being that They offer or they can offer open access in a way that existing alternatives can't. So because you don't need to trust everyone who's in your network, you can have a much bigger network of participants directly accessing into the internet exchange, and therefore, ultimately, better liquidity, network effects and lower costs. And so I think that will be a very, very long, at least a three or four year journey. But that's where we will go

Balaji Srinivasan  5:28  
and product.

Unknown Speaker  5:31  
I have to admit that, in my opinion, we as a community are not that great at making predictions. I mean, we failed so many times right before. But having said that, I can only say what I do hope for. And I do hope that every single exchange that we will be using in few years time will be non custodial. I think this is like crucial. It's beyond me why people are still using custodial exchanges, given so many of them, you know, just continue to vanish into the female feanor. I spend most of my time in Poland and polish crypto community has been shocked by the sudden disappearance of, of one of the biggest, centralized crypto exchange in Poland with the longest history and the owner of that exchange was actually found dead in the forest. And, and frankly, I have very bad feelings for the reaction of the Polish regulator. Because of that, I mean, they have no idea what's going on in crypto. But they would sort of try to put everyone into the same basket, right. And we as a community should like, be smarter. So that's one thing. And then again, I think trading about a lot of different use cases. And I think that there'll be a lot of different architectures, and there'll be no one winner. And this is this is essentially what we've witnessed with ISIS. Given this Cambrian explosion, not of just zero knowledge proofs, but also on the defy in the last few months, we've been kind of pleasantly surprised that this explosion actually brought huge volume to our exchange, in spite the fact that it's fully on chain, it's slow. It's been criticized by so many. And yet, it's, it's still somehow a preferred choice for people who just want the features of that you get when you trade on chain. And clearly, I mean, this is not about scalability or privacy. I mean, this is really 45 protocols that require composability. Right? So if you do margin trading using compound or whatnot, or dydx, I mean, they, this is what they use today.

Balaji Srinivasan  8:03  
Well, let me let me actually, so you guys brought up a few points, maybe I can push on this a little bit. So, you know, a while ago, one of the theses on decentralized exchanges was that they were going to offer some form of regulatory arbitrage, you're going to be able to list everything that you can list on a centralized exchange, and you could, you know, you know, just trade whatever, and, you know, like, state couldn't do anything or whatever. And that really hasn't, it's kind of played out, but really hasn't fully played because the liquidity isn't there. And so a new thesis, whichever you have you talk about in Florida, you may think that as well, is that it's the advantages noncustodial and, you know, one kind of macro thesis I have on the whole spaces, you know, come for the money state for the freedom, you know, so people come for the upside of crypto, and then then they stay because you know, the philosophy or the program bill, or something like that, you know, like draws them in and keeps them. And so you know, with respect to that with a noncustodial, trading on index, you could keep your funds locally, and then arbitrage multiple exchanges. And that actually gives you money. And then you you do it, you keep it non custodial Lee because it actually makes you more money, but it's also something that long term keeps your coin safe. So that's like one way that it might might get adopted. But what do you think about something like that?

Unknown Speaker  9:15  
I mean, I think that's absolutely the case. Now, certainly. So for example, talking about youth to die. The reason I think why a lot of people were you could use that is not because it's decentralized at the moment, it's because if you are generating die from using using maker dow, it's faster to treat it to using that much faster than deposits into exchange, waiting a centralized exchange, waiting that 20 minutes for it to be credited making your trade then withdrawing back to your wallet. And so that there's already a speed advantage there, which translates effectively to a cost advantages Well, if you're worried about losing an arbitrage opportunity, and so, ultimately, I think we have to consider that particularly in this design space, but I think obviously in a lot of applications, traders are One of the most economically rational entities as close to it as you can get, and so they they do look at the ultimate things in cost sense. And so yes, using a centralized cryptocurrency exchange, maybe even if there's a 5% chance that it's going to get hacked and lose funds, or that it could be facing other sort of regulatory pressures. And that currently could be a higher cost than doing everything on chain and paying lots of fees and losing opportunities, which you'd otherwise get from using a faster off chain exchange. But in the case of arbitrage at the moment, already, we're seeing the speed advantage being the primary driver.

Balaji Srinivasan  10:40  
So price arbitrage rather than regulatory arbitrage, which is interesting.

Unknown Speaker  10:44  
Go ahead for Yeah, I want to jump in here because I think the reason this regulatory arbitrage didn't play out for lack of liquidity was because there were good enough alternatives are better alternatives actually. And when it comes to security token, which have been talked about for years, but never really were there for a number of reasons, but which are now starting to be there. And there is actually this opportunity for the arbitrage and a lack of better alternatives, because there are no regulated centralized trading venues for these types of crypto assets. And you actually need decentralized exchanges right now to get any liquidity at all for these token. And we've, a week ago, we've installed our token smart contract on the theorem blockchain, it's now there, we've started issuing some of these tokens, and people are starting to do secondary market transactions. And there's no other way than adex to do this. And, indeed, if you want to do this arbitrage, in terms of the regulatory arbitrage, then the question is, what is the dex right? And when is it decentralized enough to actually fall into this loophole that in Europe is really the loophole of a bulletin board, where if you're not running a centralized order book, you're essentially not an MTF, and thereby unregulated and I think there are taxes that call themselves Texas that still have some sort of a centralized order book. And then there are taxes that are actually truly decentralized, like the Dutch x, for example. And I think at least these types of venues will see a big popularity among security token holders that want liquidity.

Balaji Srinivasan  12:16  
Well, yeah, that's interesting. So you know, flaring. One thing we were talking about off stage is sort of like a, like an algebra of regulation. If you take A, B, C, and D, and you combine them together, your regulatory burden is basically the maximum of ABC and D often. So if you take a highly regulated security token, for example, and then you put on an unregulated x, you know, the state still has a hook in you from from a right. So how do you how do you think about that?

Unknown Speaker  12:39  
It's certainly true. And I think we will have to see this in the wild how it plays out, which jurisdiction claims, some form of right to intervene in this. in our, in our case, were regulated in Germany and in a wider context in Europe. And there are very clear rules around what is a trading venue? When do you have to be regulated? What is the security token? What are the KYC AML requirements? And we believe that if we were to be if our token were to be traded on a dex in Europe, that falls under this exception of the bulletin board ban put up by asthma, then I think no state at least in Europe would intervene. And if then American token holders would trade on these venues. Obviously, it's a different story. And we just don't know what the SEC would do. Interesting.

Unknown Speaker  13:27  
Bartek hearings on, I think you owe folks a lot of attention to what Florian and his colleagues has done, because I think it's a kind of revolutionary in terms of the topic that we're discussing. I frankly, was very skeptical. I didn't know it was even possible. But right now, it seems like the token is in the wild. And while I think you have one? Well, you shouldn't have said that. But not everyone knows that I have one. And now we come back to the question, you know, what does it even mean to trade this token, you know, I can send this token to any one of you and you will have it you will be tainted with the security token Right. I mean, you wouldn't you wouldn't even know that this is security token just by looking at it because he's just a pure plain vanilla ERC 20 open Zeppelin library created token not only can be traded at uniswap Boise stacks, any other exchange that essentially is permissionless. But but it can be easily transferred among anyone really, bye bye. Bye bye. If your network right so how do you stop that? You know, that's my question to anyone who thinks that this should be regulated. I mean, should we like regulate talking trustless on aetherium should we regulate ether transfers on aetherium?

Balaji Srinivasan  14:50  
Well, so here's here's I'm, you know, shipping like the referee grabbing a chair and jumping into the middle of wF so my thesis on this for what it's worth is I'm obviously I'm rooting for you guys on screw dragons. I'm actually kind of bearish on it because Redemption of that token for the actual underlying security is like a little bit of a hot potato, you know, you send to somebody can they actually redeem it. And alternative is actually to take where you guys have done Bartek at maker down, and you know, you've piped in the USD eth price. And from that, you'll be able to basically get dye like a, you know, a stable coin. In theory, you could pipe in, not the USD eth price, but let's say the geo, the goog eth price, or the Tesla eth price and essentially set up like a CFD, a contract for difference like thing where you could get the benefit of any publicly traded stock without actually having the redemption issues, especially with the security token, right. And I think that's like a more organic, like, true to crypto way because it's hard to ban a price signal. Now, I mentioned CFD CFDs are highly regulated in the US, but not everywhere. Right? And so it feels like an approach like that, that kind of takes away the redemption risk in a clever way might might be might be feasible. What What do you guys think about that?

Unknown Speaker  16:03  
Yeah, what you've just described, you know, I think these are the things that we will see, you know, in very near future, once our system is more mature, I mean, in few months, we're gonna launch multi collateral die, and and we'll be hoping that the community will come out and sort of provide us with different tokens that will be used to actually as a collateral for die. So that's, that's short. I mean, that's, that's, that's something that we'll see. Next year, for sure. You know, and I do hope that, you know, there'll be another Cambrian explosion of different token schemes that will actually play out like you've just described, but just just one extra remark. I think what you've said about, you know, bills and board versus a trading venue that does the order book matching. That's, that's kind of a divide that, in my view is kind of flawed, because, in my Well, I mean, look at the races taxi ticket or the book, it's got matching engine. And yet, I would argue that it's a protocol because it does not have an operator. Right. And I think that divide that marking showed on one of the presentations in the exchanges that require an operator versus the exchanges that don't require an operator. That's a huge divide. And that's, that's the divide that will play out to have an important role in in future discussions, because the regulators will eventually come to realize that if there is no operator, then the only thing that they can do is to sort of, I don't know, put developers to jail, and I don't think that's

Balaji Srinivasan  17:41  
going to happen. Well, it's interesting. You say that, because I think, you know, I tweeted this while back that pseudonymity is as important as decentralization, because decentralization you can't get the network. But if the founder is not synonymous, well, they kind of know who it is, like, you know, even if Facebook could release Libra, like totally open source, whatever. Well, they know they're in Menlo Park, they know where to reach them, and so on. So it may be that the higher the risk you're taking, you might want to do something sedonas. Let me let me switch topics here. So what are the major innovations in trading that you've seen? And what what things you think are important? Well, let me let me bring you in since you haven't.

Unknown Speaker  18:15  
Yeah, so I think probably the biggest thing that's happened in the last year or so and I think which will continue to grow is, is the kind of movement around leverage on in the defy space. And that's something which is required for, for large scale speculative speculation in a in the sense that it will impair growth of liquidity, but also price prices being driven through decentralized exchange networks rather than just through wasn't just following in the sense that, I think what you're describing earlier with synthetics, that would have that would work for large shares, like Google, which are following where you're following the price. But if it's a new token that's issuing a new security for the first time, they may not be a clear price signal. And so you do need a different form of trading to happen. So I think that's that's the first thing but then secondly, different scaling techniques to reduce the cost of settlement. I think that's what's that will be the next stage. And those two things combined, I think will mean that this is this can really start to compete. Excellent flooring, what do you think?

Unknown Speaker  19:25  
Obviously, my perspective is biased from what we do. But for me, the biggest innovation is how, for example, the Dutch shakes but also maker come up with exchanges that are really protocols without an operator because this is where this dividers in the regulation. And so I think this is super innovative, at least for people that are interested in the security token.

Unknown Speaker  19:46  
From my perspective, we gonna follow both fruits to be clear. We think that very space for a protocol which is fully decentralized and very space for operated, operator run, exchange and Obviously for the second case Zika roll ups and zero knowledge proofs, providing scalability and privacy, you know, are crucial. And I mean, the architecture that you have just seen before this panel, you know, that's that's, I'm very bullish on this. Having said that, I do hope that we're going to find the sweet spot between the privacy and actually transparency of the, of the actual volumes traded, and so that everyone can be assured that we're talking real volumes, and not wash trades, or some tokens that no one's ever heard of. Which is, I mean, we know that this is a problem with crypto trading, obviously, and, but also decentralized exchanges and our community here, I mean, we should be like, more vigilant. I mean, I'd like to really understand, for example, index volumes, and I'd like to talk to someone who can provide me with the real data from ITEX because some seriously Personally, I've had I've seen kydex as the number one exchange.

Balaji Srinivasan  21:01  
Yeah, it's funny you said, Because basically, the the value of being ranked as a top end coin is much higher often than the fees that you would pay to wash, trade and fake it, or what have you. And, you know, I often think of coin market cap as sort of being like, with no offensive remark cap, it's a great, you know, thing, and so on, but sort of like the AltaVista digital, of like coin rankings, right? We're ultra VC digital, you know, for the folks who are too young here to remember that was a search engine that was subject to keyword stuffing. And because of that any individual like page could get up there. And then you needed like a new algorithm like Google style PageRank, which was robust keyword stuffing, because it had backlinks that any individual coin couldn't fake. So something like that, where you, you have things where you can't fake it. This gets us into the topic of sort of trustworthy exchange analytics or data. Right now, the heuristic people use is like, these exchanges are trusted, and these aren't. So you just exclude all of their data. And you just include all of these. And that's actually a reasonable first cut, but maybe you have ideas on on something better than that.

Unknown Speaker  22:08  
For our statistics, we actually do deep blockchain trace analysis, we trying to find out what are the sources of transaction, so I'm kind of assuming that the transaction is a part of the broader defi ecosystem comes from compounds dydx and whatnot from trusted wallet, you know, that's a legitimate use case. Because there's not just you know, a transfer of tokens from one account to another. But it's tough problem, right? You know, how do you how do you actually

Balaji Srinivasan  22:41  
classify these but but this is essentially our approach, you get to a good issue there, which is the transparency versus privacy trade off, because before you trade, you want to have a glass box and know everything about it. But your particular trade, you actually don't necessarily want everybody to know about it. So you have, you know, different incentives in different parts. Okay, so moving on. So what do you guys think of as the best jurisdiction to do crypto trading to set up an exchange? A start?

Unknown Speaker  23:11  
I would definitely place it in the European Union for a number of reasons. I don't think it's that smart to go offshore in the long term, especially if you want to get more and more reputable players into the space. So having anywhere in the EU or Switzerland or so the good thing about the EU is that it is uniformly regulated by method two. So it doesn't really matter, specifically, where you do it in the EU, you would then look at the availability of a How good are the legal institutions in the country? Is there a court system and everything right? And I wouldn't go to Switzerland simply because they're not part of the EEA. And, in particular, now, Germany is interesting, because they are pushing for security, regulation, security, term regulation on all aspects, I think they want to be kind of a first mover there. But ultimately, it's really about the European framework that is harmonized in a huge market, and provides unlike, for example, the US some very clear rules on how things work, which reduces legal costs by an order of 10 or more. And so yeah, I would be voting for the EU there.

Unknown Speaker  24:22  
Will. So it's a I think it's a difficult decision to take any exchange that's launching it now. But I think actually, other method, of course, is, yeah, gives you all the advantages you give there. And actually, I think in terms of primary issuance, that maybe makes sense in Europe, but there are a lot of disadvantages to trying to fit something that's different into an existing, very sort of solid, regular regulatory standard, which wasn't designed for these sorts of things. So I think somewhere like Abu Dhabi is One of the most interesting, so it's based on UK law, but they actually have made very specific provisions, for example, for self custody, managed custody of assets. And that changes the way that the treatment of the exchange is done. Both for settlement and if you have a centralized operator, and there are various others, I think, which are following that model of actually designing from the ground up for cryptocurrency exchanges, and take into account all these different challenges. And I think that will probably be the first landing point. And then hopefully, I think maybe later on Europe, for example, are you located in Dubai or so at the moment? We are located in British Virgin Islands. So offshore? I think that's To be honest, the only way I mean, if you if you genuinely want to be operating a cryptocurrency exchange, there's a there's a huge cost associated with doing it. Anyway, that's sort of an onshore like, UK or even Switzerland. But in the long term, that that's the most interesting direction is places like Abu Dhabi.

Unknown Speaker  26:07  
I guess I would say that it all depends on the use case and your own definition of cryptocurrency, right? Because everything to us is like a token, it can represent what we think it's a currency. But it can be a security token. And and, of course, this is huge gray area in between of tokens that some would say that it's a security token, some would wouldn't. But normally, I would definitely prefer jurisdictions that are trying to recognize that you're actually trying to change the world for the better, rather than put you into this, you know, broad basket of people doing cryptocurrency scams. So what we're doing with our exchange, we're actually trying to make sure that, indeed, our understanding of an protocol, which is not operated, this is a good understanding, you know, in many jurisdictions, and I think we should try to actually talk to as many jurisdictions as possible to make sure that verse nobody that will sort of challenge this point of view at the same time, for the powers that we do operate, I think it really depends on the use case. So we will approach Americans to register IDs, for example, because we do want to trade security tokens for for for American customers. And that's the only way you can do it. In Europe, we probably might actually do it in Switzerland, because the Switzerland is far more advanced in terms of thinking and they've got special provisions right, again, for DLT. Trading, whereas European Union, the the MTF concept, is not really designed to use for blockchain. The GDPR is not designed to be used for blockchain and so forth. Right. So it's actually harder. But and Switzerland has this advantage that you know, they're very progressive, and at the same time, they located right in the center of Europe. So whatever we do in Switzerland should be actually usable for for users, not just from Switzerland, right, but in broader area,

Balaji Srinivasan  28:34  
and surprising. And he said, So basically, I heard Europe, I heard Dubai, I heard quaza. Europe, is that right? Like,

Unknown Speaker  28:41  
yes, Switzerland Also, we're talking with Liechtenstein lawyers, for example, rights. And, and like I said, I mean, I think it depends on the use case. So let me just give you an example. So if you wanted to, to have some sort of a pro version of margin trading, where it wouldn't be fully decentralized, that we would actually borrow, we, as an institution would borrow US trade the money, then we would certainly use the jurisdictions that will make it easy for us, right.

Balaji Srinivasan  29:14  
Okay. So, so I heard Okay, so summery Europe, BVI, Dubai, Liechtenstein, and so on, I would give a shout out probably for Singapore, which I think is a good all around jurisdiction for a lot of people. There's probably Asian jurisdictions that that folks might be able to educate us on. So just last, you know, minute that we've got just quick lightning, you know, 30 seconds. What's the next big thing in crypto trading?

Unknown Speaker  29:40  
I guess I'm like a broken record that repeats itself. So I would say it's security token. We will see, I think, a lot of tokens being issued over the next two years and people will be looking for liquidity. So whichever trading venue, be it fully decentralized or totally centralized can make it public. For the biggest number of users to get liquidity, there will be a very, very strong contender for a, I think supermassive super successful company in the future.

Unknown Speaker  30:11  
Well, so I think it will be scaling by two routes, but I think the primary one that will eventually win out will be things like stocks for bat settlement, which will just reduce cost and mean that these do become practical for very high frequency trading, which then means that they can also lead price discovery

Unknown Speaker  30:33  
with the multi collateral die loan to be able to sell five digits yourself without any Counterparty. So that will be huge. We hope and I definitely encourage every one of you to check it out. Because it's going to be very different experience from using someone else's funds. Like you would do with compound and whatnot, and, and also what these guys did to me, these engineers, I mean, I'm very much looking forward to see you know, how that's gonna play out because that can actually radically change how we think about security tokens and security, token trading. Great. Thank you all very much.

Transcribed by https://otter.ai
