Unknown Speaker  0:00  
Hi, I'm Balaji Srinivasan CTO of Coinbase. Let's break in.

Unknown Speaker  0:34  
Yo, yo, yo, this is Ruben Harris. I'm here with the homies. Autentico Meister, and this is the breaker stars podcast. Timo, can you please tell the people we're doing a day?

Unknown Speaker  0:42  
Yes. So it's a Thursday night and tonight's episode we're recording out of coin base. On the podcast, we've had a lot of guests who broken into tech, we've also brought on hiring managers and VPS of engineering. Tonight, we're we have a very special guest, who's the CTO of Coinbase. And I'm really excited to hear his story and definitely tune in. Ruben, can you please introduce the guests?

Unknown Speaker  1:07  
Yeah. So for those of you that have read the breaking startups blog, close the original one, you'll know a name Balaji Srinivasan, and this is really a surreal moment, because this is the second time I've actually seen the first time that Argentine will have seen him. And for those of you that don't know, not only was he is he the CTO of Coinbase. But before this, he was a founder of counsel, earn, teleport, and he was a general partner at Andreessen. And now he's doing a lot of amazing things. Today, we're going to talk about a few things in addition to education and his thoughts about things in the future of work. But for now, let's just say welcome Balaji. Thanks. So we've, this is the second interview that we've done with somebody as senior as you. Can you explain to people what a Chief Technology Officer does in

Unknown Speaker  1:56  
tech? Sure, yeah. So you know, the CTOs role is to use technology to advance the business. And that sounds really generic. But it means you're not just let's say, you know, the head of it, right, the head of it is using computers as a tool internally. And you know, making sure that people's software updates are refreshed and getting the MacBooks ordered on time and so on. That's very important job. But the CTOs job is okay, look at where technology is today, or it's going to be tomorrow, figure out how we can adopt it figure out like what our architecture looks like, and use technology as the guiding principle of business since a particularly important role in a technology company, because in many ways, it defines kind of the future of the business. And it has intersects with lots of other things intersects with business development. And it certainly intersects with you know, comms, and you do a lot of public speaking and a lot of recruiting and so on and so forth. Here, you're basically like the senior most engineer often at a company, in a sense.

Unknown Speaker  2:55  
Got it. And so if someone is an entry level engineer, and is thinking about getting up to this role, what's the typical path to get to that level? And what kind of things do you have to do and learn along the way?

Unknown Speaker  3:05  
Well, there's, there's two ways to do it. One is to just start your own company and call yourself CTO. That's what I did starting out, right. And then you have to grow into the role and built that into, you know, multi hundred person company, we sold out for a few hundred million dollars recently. So that was kind of, okay, you take the title, just like you start a company, call yourself CEO, and see if you can fill those shoes that you just made for yourself. And the second way is to you know, work your way up. But then the large company also totally legitimate, you know, kind of kind of thing. And, you know, like, if you look at something Nadella or Sundar Pichai, they started as just engineers within, you know, Microsoft and Google respectively, and work their way all the way up to CEO. So sort of similar, you know, to work your rep test. Yeah, yeah.

Unknown Speaker  3:50  
So as a CTO, and I'm actually also CTO of career karma. Like, how do you stay up to date with all the technologies because there's so many new trends, there's serverless, there's, like react the completely like new way to write front end and just kind of like, How do you stay up to date with all the technologies and decide what's the right fit for your company?

Unknown Speaker  4:11  
Well, that's a really good question, I think, you know, so first is to be a good CTO, you actually need to enjoy technology as a hobby. Like, you know, when somebody else might go to the club, you're like, hey, let me stay home and mess around with this new, you know, piece software, this new, like 3d printer or something like that. And that can't feel like a job. It's actually just something you want to do, right? So that's kind of one aspect of it where you really need to, you know, live and breathe 24 seven. And then kind of another aspect of it is sort of the taste in when to know hey, this is bleeding edge. It's cool to know about versus Okay, this is ready to start rolling in to, you know, our products. It's actually firm enough to base something on Steve Jobs actually, you know, had a good one liner on this, where he said that Apple invests In technologies that are in their spring, right, not their infancy, but in their spring, right. So usually, that means somebody else has taken some risk on the technology. And now it's it's functional enough that you're not the very first company to ever have tried to make money with it or to do something real with it. And I think that's a good rule of thumb, like, you wait for somebody else to have taken the hit. So let me give you an example. Like, with rust, I'm sure there's been a lot of good programs written in rust, but within the blockchain community parody, one of the major aetherium clients was written in rust. And, you know, while parody has had some bugs, or what have you, overall, you know, like rust has proven itself, at least within the blockchain community, because everyone's seen, okay, you built a massive project blockchain, which is really hard thing to build. It's like a database and a protocol. And it's, in this case, also got, you know, cause a little compiler in the sense of something that takes solidity and turns into something. And that's, that's complicated build, and you can build that all in rust, okay, someone else is taking the hit on rust, you can do something real on it, right? Um, and I think the third thing is to make sure that you're not, you're not just not too early and not too late. But that you're always thinking about how each of these pieces fit together, right? And it's very easy to just, you know, have shiny object syndrome, where Oh, you see something a Hacker News, let's put that into the, into production tomorrow, right? That's, that's like, you know, beginner CTO kind of thing, right? Where it's tempting to do that, oh, this thing, or all the engineers are talking about it, and so on. But usually, what you want to do is bookmark that. And then like, set a calendar event for yourself, six months, in 12 months, in 18 months, and when people are not talking about it, you go and you assess the state of it. And then you say, Hey, this is, you know, trending up is are there things happening that are kind of, you know, quieter, but aren't in the news, per se. So I set my own kind of cadence, so that I'm checking in on something, as opposed to it checking in on me. And often, like by playing offense, rather than defense, then you can really monitor technologies and kind of control. You know, what, what things you introduce, at what time

Unknown Speaker  7:04  
Got it, got it. And so given that you're in this leadership role, and you've done it as a founder, and you're doing it at a larger organization, something that we haven't really unpacked on the podcast is technical debt. So can you talk a little bit about technical debt and what committing to the right codebase means and things like that?

Unknown Speaker  7:20  
Sure. So you know, the concept of technical debt, it's a it's a good phrase, because basically, what it means is that you are getting something done today that you're going to have to pay for tomorrow. And often, you know, what that means is okay, we need to ship the product tomorrow or later this week. Therefore, we're going to copy paste this specific bit of code, because it's too much work to factor it out into a proper library and make it an API call, we're just going to copy paste it. And we know that's introducing so called technical debt, we're going to go back in the future and have to do more work to clean it up. But it's expedient it will get us our launch, it'll be functional, customers will be fine with it, etc. There's many, many different forms of technical debt. That's one of them copy, paste. But there's others like, oh, we're gonna use, you know, this old MySQL database, rather than migrating to Postgres, or we're gonna run analytics on the prod site, rather than moving to redshift or whatever, a lot of different ways that you can do something suboptimal? That's expedient that will cost you in some ways later. Right.

Unknown Speaker  8:17  
Got it. So.

Unknown Speaker  8:18  
So how do you manage as a CTO? How do you manage technical debt? And like, what type of principles do you try to follow to make sure your teams and people that report to you follow in regard to technical debt?

Unknown Speaker  8:30  
Well, you know, one thing is, it's always tempting to just stop future work and pay off technical debt. And that almost never is the right answer. Because it may be once in a while, but the big bang switchover, the Big Bang cleanup, you know, the problem with that is, it's usually not something that's visible to customers, number one, and number two, it's always more complicated than you think, right? There's a reason that those old hacks happen the way they did. So I'm a big fan of like incremental pay downs on technical debt, rather than trying to just do a big bang workshop and pay it off.

Unknown Speaker  9:02  
Got it. And as a CTO, you also do a lot of hiring. When you look at candidates who are just like getting their first job out of college, or they're getting, like maybe they went through a non traditional path, and they're kind of knocking on the door, wanting to get a seat on your rocket ship. What kind of qualities are what do you look for in those candidates? And how does someone make themselves stand out?

Unknown Speaker  9:25  
That's a great question. So personally, at least I always try to advise other entrepreneurs and focus on investments on always tried to hire for ability over experience typically, because you know, that's, that's something where it's better for a younger, sharp, you want someone who's hungry and has the ability and wants to prove themselves. In terms of what I'd look for on a CV. I would like to see that someone has rung the bell, at least like once or recently. And yes, that could be Oh, you know, they went to MIT or Stanford. It could be that they worked at Google or Facebook. Those are kind of like name brands. But it could also be that they did a really great open source project where they've got an amazing portfolio on their website, and they're out the middle of nowhere. Or they did well on like a programming competition or hacker rank or something like that. And so there are these avenues like hacker rank, like also hacker one, which is different hacker rank is like programming exams hacker one is like for, you know, security people, right. And there's folks who are coming out truly the middle of nowhere like Mexico, or, you know, India, Brazil, etc. And they're just crushing it, you know, and they don't have any training. There's Google things. And I can tell they're really smart by what they've done there. And so they have to have shown something that's world class, and then you hired them. But it doesn't necessarily have to be a traditional credential like Stanford, or MIT or Google or Facebook.

Unknown Speaker  10:41  
Got it. And speaking of like, googling things, and learning, I think it'd be helpful to like, talk a little bit about how you learn how to code. I know you recently tweeted something about like YouTube education and things like that. So how did how did you learn how to code?

Unknown Speaker  10:53  
Yeah, that's a good question. So I think, you know, my background is actually more in math than computer science, per se. So I did my Bs, MS, and PhD in electrical engineering, and MSM, chemical engineering at Stanford. And that actually focused a lot more on statistical signal processing, computational statistics, you know, complex, complex analysis, partial differential equations, all that type of stuff, right. And I think that strong foundation in mathematics made computer science, I think, relatively easier. There's certainly, obviously computer science is challenging, and whatnot. But if you if you really understand math, CS, a lot of CS can be reduced to math. And so then, given that mathematical Foundation, I was able to basically self teach a lot of computer science, you had to learn a lot of it for doubly, you know, when you're programming a circuit board, or you're programming a robot, or something like that you're learning to program, basically, at Stanford, a Double D would be able to program as well as anybody else other than a computer scientist, because you'd have like enough CS classes. But then there's like, what you learn in school, and then what you actually learn when building something. And those are quite different, like computer science and software engineering. It's the difference between, you know, understanding how fast this algorithm is going to run in theory, and then actually implementing it in practice, deploying it on Amazon, writing clean code, writing multiplayer code that others can edit maintainable code, and making money on it like now you start getting out of software engineering and into business, those are actually less overlapping than you might think. And that stuff is almost entirely self taught.

Unknown Speaker  12:29  
Got it? Got it. And it's something that you and I have spoke about, historically. And we'll talk a little bit more about how we can add to it later on, is like your thoughts on like teaching the people worldwide how to code and you've actually taken steps towards that through the most popular courses on Coursera startup engineering that I think are to NT more were able to take? So can you talk a little bit about, you know, your thoughts on massive open online courses, the state of education, and where things are today?

Unknown Speaker  12:54  
Yeah, so I think it was, was the most popular course on Coursera, or one of the top five or 10. And in 2013, I don't know if it is still a doubted actually, because been offline for a while, but be the course hit about 250,000 people. And what I wanted to try to do is fill that gap in between, okay, you know, I know, academic CS, or I've kind of heard of this thing. And I can put up a website and I can set up payments, and I can actually make money doing that. And that's kind of a wide gap where a lot of the stuff in the middle is not thought of as it's thought of as basic stuff by the software engineers, and sort of is not important enough to teach often by academics. And so it falls into this gap over here where we're, it's hard for people to bridge that gap. So um, so yeah, so let's like you know, how to set up your terminal and the Unix command line and configure Emacs and git, and how do you expect to do version control and deployments and rollbacks and blah, blah, blah, and stuff? And that stuff, which you kind of pick up lesson by lesson by being around people who know how to do that, um, versus being taught in ABCD? kind of way? Yeah, that's what I tried to do. I tried to teach that necessarily. Yeah.

Unknown Speaker  13:59  
And it actually is coming full circle. Like Ruben said, Archer and I, we started taking your courses and a bunch of other courses back in 2013 14. And then we ended up continuing to learn did coding boot camps, and then ended up working as engineers for three years before starting career karma. What is your thoughts on like, Boot Camps? Since they're fairly like, new, they're been around for five years? What is your thoughts in terms of the like, the types of topics that they color, and kind of the future of where alternative education is heading?

Unknown Speaker  14:34  
Screw question. So I like kind of the I like the concept of boot camps in the abstract, you know, I think I like where lambda school is going, where they have a lot more skin in the game, you know, where they are basically, giving, I believe something like free tuition, and then they take a percentage of income. Yeah, yeah. And that is really impressive if they can pull that off, because it means that they are completely aligned. They're students, right. And, and that's actually quite unusual. Because you think about how, you know, traditional higher education works, they just get the money up front. And you know, they charge basically the same price, whether they're teaching you art history, or computer science. And even if those two degrees may be radically different in terms of monetize ability, because it's no longer the college's problem, they pass it on to the debt collector, you know, and, you know, maybe, you know, if you're somebody who's really making a rational decision about those two things, and you're okay with the debt load, and so on, that one might impose risk, the other fine, but often 18 year olds aren't in a position to do that. So I think it is, is good that we're starting to move towards a model, where at least people have a choice of a lower cost, more vocationally oriented education. I'm not saying it's for everybody, but I'm glad there's that choice.

Unknown Speaker  15:47  
Yeah, yeah. And so given that some people are still going the traditional education route, what are your thoughts on like, college student loans, things like that,

Unknown Speaker  15:56  
are my thoughts on that? So, um, you know, on the one hand, I understand the appeal of academia, it's great. There's, like, basically, no deadlines for anything. I mean, there's deadlines for homework. But that's, that's like kind of nothing relative to like a product deadline, or, you know, a shipping deadline, you know, people expect real results, not just, you know, just like problems and so on. So, I understand the appeal of it. And, you know, colleges are very plush. You know, nowadays, they were even 2030 years ago with, you know, the gym and the racquetball court and the pool, and also, all this stuff is really expensive. And in many ways, college is sort of like, front loading your life with a four year vacation.

Unknown Speaker  16:36  
Right, and then you pay for it for the rest of your life.

Unknown Speaker  16:39  
And so, you know, that's not, that may or may not be the appropriate, you know, tactic, right? Like, what I'd like to see is something where you graduate with $500,000 in profit, rather than or in savings, rather than $500,000 in debt. And, or, you know, 120 year or whatever the number is nowadays. And I think that's possible to do. But it's, it's a little tricky to do, because there's so many cultural forces that still push people to say, Oh, go to college, if you're not going to college, it's bad, etc, I think it might be easier to kind of start something like that, at least partially, either outside the US route to the demographics of people who've traditionally gone to college, and hopefully stuff like, you know, as I mentioned, lambda school stuff like that is a step in the right direction.

Unknown Speaker  17:22  
Got it, got it. Um, so something that we talked about, as well as that how Tech has taken over every industry and how tech is no longer an industry anymore, and everything has either is either tech or tech, Jason. So we always reference or we tend to reference, Marc Andreessen, his piece about software or eating the world. But you also wrote a piece called software's reorganizing the world. And then you also learn something was then called teleport? So can you talk a little bit more about free people moving cloud cities, cloud countries and your thoughts about like borderless countries and things like that?

Unknown Speaker  17:55  
Sure. So So first, let me speak to the first piece, which is, why is tech a part of everything. So in like the early 20th century, physicists basically took, you know, the equations that they had now, you know, mastered, you know, the, like, electricity and magnetism and mechanics and thermodynamics, in particular, and then a little bit later, quantum mechanics. And they just went into field after field and sort of kicked in the doors and revolutionize these fields and said, Oh, you don't know what you're doing. Let me write down like the fiscal equations. And now we'll actually mathematize everything right. And so a lot of things sort of got revolutionized that way. And physicists were these great generalists, like, you know, one example is Luria and delbrook, went into biology. And they were able to just apply some relatively simple, you know, mathematical techniques, from physics to the study of, you know, microbes, and so on. Okay. And then what happened was somewhere mid century, every discipline kind of fragmented, and there wasn't as much, you know, sharing of information, somebody in, let's say, the analysis of, you know, traffic on the road, would not have too much to talk to with somebody who was, I don't know, looking at finance or whatever, right. And then what happened was, that towards the end of the 20th century, you start to have computer science. And so you know, you you had the deployment and the mainstreaming of computers. So algorithms became important everywhere. And those algorithms computed on data, and databases became important everywhere. And so the thing is that in any field that you go into, there are algorithms and there is data. So you go into taxis, and there are algorithms to route the cabs around and there's data on data on their trips. And you go into finance, and there's algorithms to, you know, like, calculate your order book. And there's data on what the past order book status was, or you go into, you know, hotels or into movies or music or whatever. And all of them have a algorithms and B data. And what that means is if you're good at computer science and statistics, you can be like the physicists of hundred years ago and just walk into any room. And immediately, you know, add value to that company, it can be Walmart, it can be BestBuy. It can be Starbucks, they have data, and they're gonna have algorithms and so on. So that's kind of why every industry has become a tech industry. So there's always some underlying logic to that industry, whether you call it a business process, whether you call it an algorithm or what have you, you know, an algorithm is sort of like a an upscaled word for business processes. You know, like, okay, there's some math, we can do some analysis here a business process, just I do x, and then y, and then z or whatever, right? And, and so that's why if you have that firm foundation, you can go in and be like, Okay, show me your database, boom, okay, here's some columns to six, some rows to six, some correlation, some, there's some that right. So that's why every industry is now tech driven.

Unknown Speaker  20:47  
Yeah. And an array of thinking about it is alright, so you're sitting at your computer, you're typing in these magic symbols, things are happening. And then what that does is it basically means that you're sort of crafting the order in, in, you know, the cloud like this, and then you're exporting it to these actuators, right? So concrete example, like, visualize drones, right? You program the drones flight path, and then you push it out, and they all just pick up and go, right. But whether that's, um, you know, like, it could be 3d printers, it could be taxis that you're moving around the world. It could be door locks at your opening and closing. It's just basically you hit Enter, and then like the world, like, vibrates, and does what you just asked it to do. And exactly the way that you asked to do it, even if not necessary the way you intended to do it, right. So in this fashion, you can sort of decouple a lot of the process of generating value from the, from the location where that value is actually delivered. Right? So that's like a really important concept, you're starting to, you pull it away from exactly what actuators are, and think about how different that is then, like mining or, you know, like oil, these traditional businesses, even those are becoming software eyes, or, you know, software's eating them, even five years ago, like a company like Rio Tinto, yep, was running mining trucks, like like trucks to like move or back and forth from a remote control center in Perth. Right, so they're running them remotely, they're hitting Enter, and these things are moving around. So it's like, traditionally, very physical businesses are actually also getting eaten by software. Right? So so that's like, the macro of like, why this thing is happening. Okay. And so then, what's, what is one of the consequences? Well, so as you start divorcing value creation from location, right, then, you know, the specific site at which you're assembling becomes maybe less important, right? And so people become more mobile, they become more more nomadic, they have the ability to pick up at the drop of a hat and, you know, call an Uber and get an Airbnb and be working remote. And, you know, even the question, Where are you is actually sort of a neologism, right, like back in 1800s 1700s. You know, before the telephone, like, where are you? Well, I'm sitting across the table. Right, like, like, it's like a very modern question, right? Yeah. Even even like, even 20 years ago, like most people, if you you know, unless you're calling from a payphone Where are you is, like an unusual question, but now happens all the time your constant communicate it, because there's more uncertainty in it and wiser, more uncertainty, because people are changing, changing their location more. Okay. So one observation is this is that mobile has made us more mobile, right? second observation is that because of social networks, we have all these folks who we start to meet online, who we know better than the person who's next to us in an apartment building, right? There's lots of folks there's, there's thousands of people I've met from online, from Twitter, from Facebook, whatever, that more from Twitter maybe than, than Facebook, but that are, that I've met in person, but that live very far away, right, but they just share similar interests, they're interested in, in, you know, some of the same, you know, technical topics, or whatever. And so that combination of a massively increased personal mobility, be, you know, the ability to count sort of separate value creation from location and see people from far away that share your values that, you know, like can now move to be in person, I think over time is going to lead to a way of mass migrations, where folks start to concentrate more according to their shared like beliefs and interests, and you know, hobbies and stuff like that, then to like geographic proximity, per se.

Unknown Speaker  24:20  
Yeah. Yeah. No, that's amazing. So like speaking about, like, no shared interests, our beliefs, and revolutionizing industries. One of the first pot talks that we saw you do while we're still in Atlanta, is voice verse exit. And I think it's important concept to talk about because a lot of people don't know that they have these these opportunities at their disposal, because so can you elaborate a little bit on voice versus exit and the power that people have?

Unknown Speaker  24:46  
Sure. So, um, you know, voice versus exit another term for it is like voice first choice, right, which kind of rhymes

Unknown Speaker  24:54  
right? The bars,

Unknown Speaker  24:55  
right? Yeah, exactly.

Unknown Speaker  24:58  
So the basic idea is If there's something and you want to change it, let's take a few examples, right? So let's say that you're a customer of a company and you don't like the product, right? voice is submitting a complaint form. And exit is taking your business somewhere else, right? For an open source project voice is submitting a patch. And exit is forking the codebase. And doing something else, right? on if a country is going in the wrong direction, you know, voices, casting your vote and exit is emigrating, and so on, and so forth. Like basically, in you know, in the context of many different situations, you can try to change the thing from within, which is voice, or you can say, Okay, I'm not going to be able to change it. But I do really feel strongly about this issue. So I'm going to leave and I'm going to do my own thing, right. And, and whether you call that exit, whether you call that choice, it is something that actually is a compliment to voice and gives voice its strength. And what I mean by that is, you know, if you, you know, like, like, as a company, right, you will hear lots and lots of customer complaints. But the thing that customers actually leave for to another company, is what they really cared about. Mm hmm. Right. And sometimes they will complain about something that's not actually what they cared about, or the volume may not be as high as what they're actually taking their business to somewhere else. Right. So the person takes a bid someone else is actually in a way voicing something by exiting, right. Um, you know, same with a country like it, you know, you may say, Okay, I don't like this, that and the other, but you'll put up with them, then this thing really is what makes you leave. And then folks, you pay attention to that, or will pay attention to them. Yeah. So so that's how I think about these two forces. And a very important thing about technology is, it is increasing the ability to increasing choice, increasing the ability to exit in many, many different ways, from making us more mobile. So you can change your location, to having lots of source of information to choose from, so you're not restricted just one information source, to having many different types of career opportunity with search engines, and so on. So like it just massively expanding choice and micro economic leverage in many, many different ways. And so that's like, the macro like technology's really increasing the ability to exit to choose if you don't like your current arrangements.

Unknown Speaker  27:13  
So we talked a lot about immigration, exercising your voice through exit. And Archer and I, we were born in Ukraine, and our parents chose to exercise their right and execute crane and bring us United States. I wanted to ask you, your thoughts on kind of immigration and how immigration is the fuel of this country. And we have a lot of examples of founders, like the founder of pioneer, which is a startup that recently launched which invests in human capital. Coming to United States, the founder came from Israel, went through Y Combinator, and now he's able to start businesses in this country. I know you're one of the advisors, what is your, I guess, thought on the immigration on why you decided to advise pioneer?

Unknown Speaker  28:04  
Yeah, sure. So pioneers interesting, because the goal is to try to find smart people anywhere in the world, and then back them with these micro grants on and Daniel and I and some other folks involved that have been talking to this idea for some time actually wanting to do something like this, all the way back in 2013 2014. So I think the internet's a very powerful thing to find that kind of talent out in the middle of nowhere. For example, all the way back in either 2013 or 2012, there was a kid in Milan, Bator, Mongolia, who got one of the highest scores on the circuit's exam of MIT, but he wasn't an MIT student, he was just someone who's taking the courses online. And so is this really remarkable talent kind of in the middle of nowhere, who deserved a shot on the world stage? Right. And there are so many folks like that, you know, places like Nigeria or Brazil, or, you know, the Middle East, India, you know, places like that, where the 20 century kind of left them out, in some ways, right? Like, the the countries were poor. And the parents were poor, maybe through no fault of their own, you know, just because like, you know, they just didn't have the opportunity. And now we can give them that kind of opportunity with the internet, potentially, we take that cell phone, and that's a Skyhook. You know, that that brings them to where they deserve to be.

Unknown Speaker  29:19  
Yeah, yeah. And speaking of like these, giving people opportunity on the world stage that are really talented, and the power of the internet to collaborate with each other and meet each other. Something that you've talked about his massively collaborative mathematics and, and the ability to, to put a lot of intelligent people or talented people solving a problem at the same time and being able to solve things quicker than it would have taken historically, that might have taken like 100 years and it might be done in like 50 years versus like, or like even a year. So what are your thoughts about like collaboration online?

Unknown Speaker  29:51  
Yeah, so massively collaborative mathematics is is super interesting because not, it's not obvious that it would work on so for example like, what are the best examples of online collaboration? Wikipedia articles on non contentious topics are pretty good. Where a bunch of folks the collective intelligence will update articles on Eigen values or, you know, like the rust programming language, and it'll get pretty darn good with just this distributed intelligence, you know, updating it. And, you know, with something like math, you might think, Oh, this is too recondite. It's too, you know, abstruse, you know, folks are not going to be able to necessarily contribute, versus, you know, on a more mainstream topic, like, I don't know, the catalog, a very Simpsons episode ever, or, or something like that, which Wikipedia is really good at. It's got a lot of comic book nerd type people. But turns out that if you build that community of mathematicians following like, Terry Taos blog, or Tim, I think Tim Gower's his blog, well, you have that critical mass and in the comment section, you can just go at it and just start proving things. And that's really interesting. And kind of non obvious, that, you know, even in specialist areas of math, you might be able to have 100, or 1000 mathematicians that are smarter together than any one of them. So I thought was very cool.

Unknown Speaker  31:17  
Yeah, yeah. Speaking of like, the world stage and location, can you talk a little bit about like people's thoughts on Silicon Valley, like, I know, when you and I met through Twitter, actually, you know, everybody kind of like was talking about moved to San Francisco, that's the best way to break in tech, you have to move it. That's the only way. And so now, people are starting to have a different conversation. So can you talk about that conversation, how we're moving towards, like, decentralization, and what that actually really means?

Unknown Speaker  31:42  
Yeah, I'd say, um, today, my advice would be for someone just starting out, that technology is way, way, way bigger than San Francisco, or Silicon Valley even, or Silicon Valley plus Seattle technology is now this absolute global phenomenon. And there's, you know, San Francisco, and Silicon Valley will always build for a long time will be very important. Cloud capitals, right? Like, you know, it'll be major tech centers. But if I was advising somebody today, you know, I mentioned this a few times, here's what I do, for someone who's like, you know, 21 years old, just starting out, I'd say, I'm, a, get the end of the sounds sound funny, or like really obvious advice, but hear me out for a second. So get the highest paying job, you can as an entry level engineer, at a Google or a Facebook, or maybe a large company that is going to go public soon on, and optimized for basically cash compensation, you know, I mean, equity is fine, but it should be equity that is close to cash, like, very, you know, very likely to go public soon, or already public, right? Um, work incredibly hard that first year, like, leave nothing on the table, you know, really make work, the focus, obviously, take care of your health and whatnot, but but really work hard. Make yourself indispensable, right. And then at the end of one year, or whenever your promotional period comes up, ask to work remote, right, do not ask for promotion to a manager job, do not even actually accept that. Because if you accept the promotion to manager job, then you're now a hub. And if you're a hub, it's much, much harder to to work remote, right? A spoke can work remote much more easily, right? Because you just don't have to coordinate as many people. You don't have to have as many, like in person face to face conversations. It's less of a person management thing. And more of a just an execution thing, right. So the reason that's really important is if you've got this, you know, you know, high paying cash job, and you work remote, well, you can slash your cost of living by like five x deterministically. Right? If you go to like teleport.org or Nomad list, you can find places that are one fifth or one seventh, or even one 10th, the price of San Francisco. And they have an internet connection, right? So you find basically the place which is the cheapest in the world subject to the constraint of, you know, maybe you want a safe city, or maybe you want a warm city or whatever your preferences are, I mean, maybe you do want a club there, maybe you don't, right. Okay, just the focus, right, like a schrom. You know, just just meditate almost. And the thing about this is it's completely within your power, right? So you get like, it doesn't have to be obviously an engineering job. It could be a designer job, or even a lawyer job or anything that allows you to work remote basement, right, and focus on the ability to work remote with a high base as like the most important thing because now once you're out there, okay, now you're only spending I don't know, let's say 20 K a year, all in on your living expenses, and everything else, you know, after taxes, your banking. So every year that you're working there like you know, you are saving two three years of personal runway. So now after just let's say you're getting three years per year, after two years of working, you have six years of personal runway, right? And you don't need angel investment, you are financially independent, it's like a deterministic path to financial independence, if you can get a remote work job that pays enough, you know, cash compensation, frankly, you know, it doesn't even have to be like, you know, an engineer job paying like 100,000. Or way more that it can just be something that allows you to work remote because an American salary on at a, you know, non American living condition price point can give you this huge arbitrage. Right. And one of the things about that is, that's a relatively recent phenomenon. It's the last 10 or 20 years that a huge amount of the world has become pretty livable, right? Because the internet, you know, like, depends on what you'd like to do. But if you just like to read, and you're kind of quiet, and you're like, Okay, I don't want to, you know, be in like a dangerous area. But if I've got Internet, and I've got a bed, and I don't know, like Starbucks, or whatever it is that you'd like they're nearby, you got some basic kind of things, and you don't like to go to expensive restaurants or the opera or what have you. But almost anywhere in the world kind of will suffice. You're really flexible. And so this is actually a deterministic way to get years and years of personal runway. Yeah. And it's so much easier to cut your expenses by five or 10. x than to make five or 10. x more money. Yeah, right, like an exit, like in the sense of, you know, like selling your company is possible, but just really, really hard to do. But an exit in the sense of like, leaving to a lower cost jurisdiction is like 100% of you. Yeah,

Unknown Speaker  36:40  
yeah. Now, how would you go about potentially, like starting your own company? So if you're living, let's say, you know, somewhere in broad where your costs were, like five times less? How would you go about building a team starting a company and potentially competing with other startups that are based in Silicon Valley? Like, what do you think would be the advantages that you would have based out of there?

Unknown Speaker  37:00  
Well, I think new things are opening up. So you know, as as much as I like tech, and I like startups. And I, like, you know, I have founded companies and so on, I would definitely just not call it for everybody. It's like, it's just, it's just very challenging and stressful and non deterministic. And I think what most people actually want is financial independence, which is very different than, you know, the motivations required to found a company, I think, to found a company. I cannot speak for everyone. But I think for a large percentage of founders, including myself, it is to get something that you cannot buy that you must build. So for example, for Elon Musk, why SpaceX because he could not buy a trip to Mars, he had had to build a trip to Mars, right? Okay. So for me, like I, you know, why do we do counsels like, I really wanted to build, like, make the genome useful, like to take all this theoretical stuff and actually make a genetic thing that was actually useful. And I couldn't buy that, because it wasn't out there. Right. So I had to build it. And, you know, so whereas I, at least Personally, I'm sure there's other folks who have done this, but I could never motivate myself to start a razorblade company or a clothes company or something like that. Because there's plenty of good options out there. I just not passionate enough about it. And like a company is so hard to do. I mean, you guys, you guys are, you know, I'm talking about right now, it's so hard to do that, like in many, many cases in the interim, it's like not economically rational to continue. So you have to have an irrational decision to persist. And what's weird about that, it's like it's one of those things where that those troughs, the only way you get out of those troughs is you're just irrationally persistent. And then like, long long term if you're successful Oh is a rational decision. But in the middle, it was irrational. Yeah,

Unknown Speaker  38:48  
sure. And I think when you look online now and and Instagram and social media, there's like this hustle porn where everyone wants to hustle wants to, like start companies, anyone can have a website, anyone can have an Instagram account with 1000 followers. And there's a lot of folks like spending their resources, their time becoming influencers or becoming YouTube celebrities, instead of focusing on the future of future opportunities, maybe tack maybe other industries, and how could they create a competitive advantage for themselves that requires skill that's going to be super valuable? I think it kind of relates to your point of like starting companies is really hard. It's a lot easier to be employee number 10, or employee number 50. At one of the, like, mission driven companies that you you're passionate about. And then you could also surround yourself with a team and maybe even work remotely like you're suggesting, and then you could save money. But I guess what are your thoughts? Like if you were starting out again, and you were, let's say 18 or 19 years old? Would you do anything differently? Like, would you go into tack or would you do something completely different? Like what are your thoughts on? Like, what would Balaji do if he was 18? Again,

Unknown Speaker  39:58  
sure. So well Bear crashes. What do I do if I was like 21? If I just look at, let's say, 21 times, so so let's, let's assume that I did Stanford or whatever, fine. Okay, fine. And then I can get one if I was 18. I wasn't doing Yeah. Okay. So I would go and get this remote work job, as I mentioned, I would go and save a bunch of money by by working remote on and then, you know, maybe I start a company, because like, I'm interested in that. Or, you know, the choices have been on the table so far that we've discussed our founder and employee, right. But there's now a third, which has become massively more mainstream just over the last year, which is investor. Anyone can become an investor, right? And it's, again, I want to like underline how much easier it is to like, put $10,000 into something, rather than to past an interview and then work for weeks or months or years on, on trying to turn that into something. I'm like, maybe what the future of the world is, is like, like, think about Twitter, right? There's, you know, it's actually even though everyone has followers, and everybody is following some accounts, the actual Twitter structure is there's a few gigantic celebrity accounts that have hundreds of thousands of followers, and then lots of folks who follow those celebrity accounts, right? And or, you know, hundreds or millions or some case 10s of millions of followers, right? And maybe what, like the future is something where there's lots of people who are investing in a small, relatively small number of entrepreneurs, but everybody's getting melted together. Right. So like, that's the kind of thing I'd like to see is like a social network where, you know, okay, it's great to make friends. It's not as great like what, you know, the public Warzone that some social networks have become, but how much better if you know, every time you check in, it's a notification that's positive, some you just made some money, right? You just back somebody who was promising. And you made some money doing that, right? You took some risk with capital, and you got some return and reward. That's something that anybody can do. And so like, I've been thinking a lot about this topic, because I've always felt there's something kind of lacking in a lot of the startup mantra and jargon over the last 15 years. Because not everybody can be a founder or employee, but everybody can be an investor. And I think that's where the thing goes over the next 1020 years.

Unknown Speaker  42:20  
So yeah, so now that people are essentially having this time, based off what you just share with us, people are talking a lot about jobs being created and destroyed because of technology. And they're floating this idea of a basic income, which essentially like providing everybody the basic needs that then you have food and shelter, things like transportation in order to like, do what they want to do in life. What are your thoughts about basic income and things like that?

Unknown Speaker  42:44  
So I think basic income is an interesting idea. I know that Y Combinator had some interest in in studying it. From like an execution standpoint, I think it would be easier to implement with cryptocurrency should people choose to implement it. Outcome just curious. What Why would it be easier with cryptocurrency, because you would just be able to hit Enter, and then everyone would get it on their computer? I mean, of course, this is postulating like a future time in 10 or 15 years when blockchain wallets are even more widespread than they are. And it would sort of be like saying, well, a drop. Yeah, like one way of putting it is okay, you can, for the most part, assume that almost everybody has an email account, or a phone number at this point in the US, right? Or not just a phone number, but a cell phone number, because, right, and I'm not saying everyone but it's like, it's like 80 or 90% of folks, I think have have that right on, and probably even higher than 90% depends on the stats. So of course, you're going to have to have something to serve those folks who are that remaining few percent. But many forms government forms, assume there's an email address, assume there's a phone number, if you could get to that level of ubiquity, where you could sort of assume that most people are going to have or the vast majority of people are going to have a blockchain address or cryptocurrency address of some kind, then it would be, you know, it'd be more uniform, it'd be easier to coat deposit to their accounts than it would be to 50 different banks with 50, different routing numbers and, and all that type of stuff. It's like that one address that captures everything

Unknown Speaker  44:10  
before talking about the investing thing and like the clarifying questions that that we have in our heads about that. Something that you talk about a lot in startup engineering, and just in general, it's just like, it's not about the ideas, the execution. I think it'd be good to elaborate about that and not apply it to just the entrepreneur perspective. But how would you apply the idea, Mays concept to a career path in the future?

Unknown Speaker  44:34  
Sure. So um, first, let me explain the idea of maze concept. And then the idea of execution, said your maze concept is just that. A lot of people tend to put maybe too much weight on just the idea like, oh, I've got an idea for a photo sharing site on the internet, right? But then you get to like the entrance of what I call the idea maze. And there's a bunch of decisions to make okay is uploading photos for you? Or does it cost you something? Or okay? If it's free, then, you know, is it private? Or is it public? Or is it like only to your friends, and so on and so forth, right? And each of those is a turn in the maze that leads to a different solution. And, you know, another one is do you do it before mobile or after mobile, and some of those turns lead to flicker, or, or to Instagram, and other turns lead to photo sharing sites that you haven't heard of, because they shut down and they made the wrong decisions right, on. And so that's the difference between an idea and edgier maze. And one of the things about the idea maze is that sometimes a good idea can become a bad idea, or vice versa. Because new phenomenon happens, like mobile appears, and now a new door opens. And something that was like a pretty good exit in, you know, like 2005, which was flicker like, I think that 35 million becomes a really big exit in, you know, six years, seven years later with Instagram 2012. Right. And, you know, I'm not obviously I'm not saying they're the same apps, you know, there's differences, but like, probably the single biggest difference is the introduction of mobile, right. And so that's how, like, a good idea could become a very good idea, right? Or another example is like Zipcar versus Uber, right? Zipcar was a good company is still a good company, but it's pretty mobile. And, you know, with with Uber, Uber was born on mobile, molded by it, right, you know, and so it was, it was left, so just a different company with a different trajectory. Conversely, sometimes, you know, a door that was open, like, build a search engine in the late 90s, kind of arguably isn't as open now. And you could counter argue that you say, DuckDuckGo, and so on. But it's pretty hard to compete with Google, like, they're really good. And they put a lot of energy into core search and whatnot. So it's hard to beat them on their core. So that may be a door that's close. And you can argue with me on that maybe, maybe there's there's a different solution. So that's like the idea maze concept. Now on ideas versus execution. The way to think about that is, you know, it takes a few seconds to write a billion dollar idea on a napkin. And frankly, sometimes that's actually the core of it, like, you know, if it is, hey, I've got this equation for how I can put a payload into space that no one else has done. All right, well, actually, that equation is like the core concept, right? You put Maxwell's equations on a piece of paper, that actually packs a lot of really useful information in there. Right. And, and there are things like that in math and physics that are really compact, were really ideas, everything. But there's other things like, Oh, I'm gonna build a social network for dogs, where it's all in the execution is all in those many micro decisions that you make through that Jeremy's and the other aspect of why, you know, there's a distinction to the idea in the execution is you can mention a pyramid where, okay, the idea takes you a few seconds. All right, so now let me you know, build a slide deck on it. All right, that's gonna take you a few hours, right? At least, or maybe a day, they build a prototype, okay, that's a weekend, you know, to get like, like the first thing working. Alright, now let me build a product. Or actually, let me build a, like a program out of it, like a like a really robust program, not a prototype, they'll just fall down and do one thing, but like a real program with options and whatnot, maybe a front end, maybe, you know, like a mobile app. Alright, that's like, probably a few weeks, like, if we're honest with the design and iterations on our now let me make that into a product that people will actually download and pay money for. And people have high standards for what that means there's a lot of polish that goes into a real product. So that's like, at least a month, probably multiple months, probably like a quarter or two quarters. All right, now, let me actually start selling that and getting revenue. All right? Well, that's so much harder, you've got to make it a company, you know, you've got to incorporate and you've got to maybe hire and you've got to sell are now you've got revenue. All right. And now let me get profits. Well, that's even harder. And so the thing is that the stages as you go from, like, a few seconds to, you know, a few hours to a few days to a few weeks to a few months to a few years to like many years. It's like so easy to say, Oh, I had that idea back in 2010. You know, and and then there's somebody who's just like, been working really hard for seven years to turn that into reality. And people really down weighed how much work that is because they only see the successes and they don't see all of that sweat.

Unknown Speaker  49:01  
Yeah, how would you apply that to a career path versus a company?

Unknown Speaker  49:05  
Well, so what I'd say actually, going back to that earlier theme of just, you know, not everybody can be a founder an employee, but everybody can be an investor. Investing kind of is just about the idea in the capital. Right? If you've got the capital, and the critical thing with crypto is the capital threshold has come way down, right? There's people who have put 10 bucks into bitcoin that have 10,000 or $20,000, right? There's people who put 100 bucks in there that have like $100,000 or $200,000,

Unknown Speaker  49:32  
right? I mean, that's what we did back in the day with it, you know, put in a little bit of money into bitcoin when bitpay was actually when we connected with you about the Bitcoin one one with the Stanford Bitcoin Stanford group. And so we just put it I think it was $250 at the time, I think I just put 1200 dollars and it's like 30,000

Unknown Speaker  49:50  
Yeah, yeah, it's pretty good, right? Like you know, this I mean, not obviously not everything is Bitcoin. Obviously, there's a lot of risk. Obviously, a lot of things can go to zero, but um, that The cool part is that the opportunity was available, right? Like if you know if you could wind back the clock, there's nothing preventing almost anybody from from doing that. Right. And today with cryptocurrency exchanges being out there and so on, it's interesting. So, so investing is the area where if you have that you're in the capital, the kind of is it, right, you just click a button, you take a risk, or you put in your capital, and someone else can take care of the execution risk. Now, you're taking capital risk, you're, you know, I'm not sure when to be very clear about two things. First, is I'm not saying everyone should do this. Yeah, I am saying everyone can do this, which is different, right? And so if you choose to take a lower risk life, and just you know, like, just just a stable kind of thing, fine, more power to you. Great, right. But if you're the kind of DNA that may want to be a founder or employee, I say you've got a new path, which is investor, a crypto investor, and that's like the high risk high reward path. Okay, so that's number one. I'm not saying should, I am saying can, okay, the second point, I just want to underline is, I'm also not talking about like, flipping the investment and day trading it and so on, I think it's very, very hard and often a fool's game to try to time the market, especially in a bear market. And, and you're arguably, in this is an argument, but you're arguably not adding any value by doing that, versus I think, buy and hold where your long term investing with an eye towards holding the asset for years or even longer than that, then you're arguably are adding value because, you know, you're backing the entrepreneur or the developer early on, you know, you've you've given them probably some capital, if it's a primary sale in particular. And, and you're, you're, you're loyal for a while, right, you're taking the risk alongside them as they're, as they're building the thing. And I would say that, you know, again, people, this is definitely an arguable point, I think personally, it is easier to identify smart, hardworking people who are relatively underestimated and take a risk with them than it is to time the ups and downs of a market where, you know, just crazy things can happen. Right? Like, like the long term, you know, you could you could predict the climate but not necessarily the weather.

Unknown Speaker  52:04  
Yeah. And like, given that you've been able to, before going to the lightning round, that you've been able to see like crypto as an emerging early know phenomenon. I know you've done things with vj pan to see like things like genomics and all these things in healthcare having in like, academics are like starting to switch careers. How does someone that's in a, quote unquote, traditional industry, think about, you know, how to decide when to switch? Or what's the new market that's coming? Like how do you pay attention to trends? Or like, what are your thoughts on like, staying ahead of trends? Because even though we're optimizing for these big salaries, are these different castes to give us this time in the future? You know, how do we think about what's coming next to be able to, like, make that switch and jump in and think about company? I think about company selection?

Unknown Speaker  52:46  
Sure. So, um, a couple of different things. One was kind of how do I keep on top of all these different trends? Second is company selection. So how to keep on top of different trends? Well, sir, you know, one of the things I was saying earlier, which is that you have to just naturally be interested in it's hard to force yourself to be interested in a topic. You know, like, I'm, I'm not that interested in, in marshmallows, or whatever, right? So I'm not going to be like, googling on that, you know, and maybe now I am. But, but like, you know, the genomics biotechs, it was always fascinated me, it is like, the code that underpins us. And, you know, mistakes in that code lead to mistakes. And it's like a really interesting concept. And so, you know, there's like nature reviews, genetics, there's various, like, kind of review journals that give you a good summary with nice graphics of what's going on. I'm not saying they're easy to read for the non specialist. But, you know, you can get up to speed if you subscribe to those. And, you know, that's what I'll do, like, whenever I've got downtime, right? I will, just like in the Uber, I'll be like, Okay, what is nature reviews, genetics got for me, right, like, and one thing, actually, that, that I think is good is to have a bunch of like, useful stuff on your phone, that's downloaded on so that you if you don't have an internet connection, or whatever you've got, like, under 1000 pages of reading that you want to do, should be like 10 to 10 pages here and 20 pages here and whatever it adds up, you know, it's like, it's like offline Twitter and much better than Twitter itself, right? Because Twitter is what's now not necessarily what's useful. And I also say, you know, everything that I do is I make a list of skills that I want to build up, right, and I'm constantly updating that list. And I have that almost as like a, like a mantra or whatever, that I'll just repeat to myself like, okay, I want to learn rust and the newest, you know, like, get through the deep mind paper and X, Y and Z. Right. And so I'll just have like, Rusty mind XYZ, all right. And then maybe not today, maybe not tomorrow, but if I keep like saying that to myself, like okay, yeah, let me look at that now, you know, so just sort of like a A reminder to myself to build those skills and then I'll kind of roughly update that once a quarter. Yeah. Right. And then you asked another question. Can you hear me?

Unknown Speaker  55:06  
Yeah, so essentially, like so now that that you're thinking about these different things like how do you think about company selection?

Unknown Speaker  55:12  
Oh, how do I think my company selection? So you know, there's there's a lot of different ways to try to pick which companies to bet on but, um, you know, the thing that has worked best for me are really two things. First, is the obvious one that everyone's gonna say, which is, you know, bet on smart, resourceful entrepreneurs. Never Say Die. And, and not necessarily the type who do really well in school. I mean, there's part of it, right? But there needs to be some degree of disobedience. Right? So you know, like Paul Graham calls it mischief, right? Maybe some degree of you know, like confidence as opposed to you always associate taking the teachers word for it, sometimes teachers wrong, right? And so it's like, it's somewhat correlated with but not exactly identical to like the person who does well in school, which is why you have you know, these famous dropouts like Steve Jobs, and Bill Gates, and Zakat what have you, right? Um, that's the first like, look for this smart, resourceful entrepreneur. And the second is really important, because there's folks who are smart, but they're not resourceful. They're not that they're fragile, you know, like, when they get yelled at online, or when, you know, they launch their product, everybody screams at them. They're like, Oh, my God, and they just kind of like quit or whatever, right? And the thing is that if you launch something, you know, usually people are yelling at you. And the reason they're yelling at you is, well, if you've I shouldn't say usually I say often people are yelling at you. And the reason is, you've gotten their attention, you've actually, you know, you've done something that is worthy of note and sometimes, if it's, if it's particularly polarizing, like let's say Soylent, right? Or Bitcoin in its early days, that was something where there was very strong contingents for, and strong continuance against, especially like, you know, for Soylent, right? That's something where I always think it's really interesting. And I'll usually bet on something like that, right. And sometimes it goes to zero, but it has an outsize positive result, because very few things early in their life have a huge community of boosters. And and you need a lot of that to like, pull yourself out of that kind of environment. Right. So So that's kind of the second thing first, you know, smart, resourceful entrepreneurs and second, like markets where there's people cheering for you because because opposite of a polarizing product, is blas a product. Yeah, we're, nobody cares. Everybody's apathetic, right? You have neither boosters, nor haters. I'm not saying that when you launch, everyone hates you more that when you launch, sometimes it feels like everyone hates you. Because all the people that like you are liking the tweet, or buying the product or whatever. And you might have 100 likes, or, you know, 100 purchases, as like three like really nasty, like responses or like you saw whatever, right? And that sticks out to you. It feels like you sort of ignored the positive or not ignore, but it's quieter, the positive is often quieter, and the negative is often louder, so it can feel like everyone hates you. Obviously, if you got a product that truly everyone hates, if it's truly everyone, 100% of people, well, then, yeah, you're out of business, right? But often, it'll feel like earnings, you would actually you have to focus on the folks who do like it enough to buy it. As long as you have some community there. You can probably, you know, take that and turn that into something bigger and bigger. Yeah,

Unknown Speaker  58:21  
yeah. So

Unknown Speaker  58:22  
going back to the definitely makes a lot of sense. So we're sitting here at coin base, and that we covered a lot of topics, one of the topics we haven't covered is what is coin base, and on the topic of the idea maze, what kind of doors is cryptocurrencies and blockchains are opening up? And why should people take note of that?

Unknown Speaker  58:43  
Yeah. So what are what doors is crypto opening up? First, what is Coinbase? So Coinbase is, you know, America's largest cryptocurrency exchange, and you can think of it as the interface between the Fiat banking world and the cryptocurrency world. And this interface is something where it's how you turn, you know, quote, buy bitcoin is how it started, right? So you turn US dollars into BTC. But now it's bigger than that you can turn, you know, euros into aetherium, or Litecoin, or other kinds of things. And we're, you know, in the process of exploring the additional more assets, we've talked about that. So it's like this interface between Fiat and crypto, just like, like an ISP, in some ways, is an interface between the offline and online worlds. And and that's what a crypto exchange does. But once you've got them into the crypto world, well, then you can make crypto more useful and we've got other products to do that like coin base wallet or earn, you know, which lets you use crypto to send you know and get replies to emails or let you use crypto and daps and other kinds of things. So that that's kind of Coinbase in a nutshell, and interface between Fiat crypto, that also helps make crypto useful. Yeah,

Unknown Speaker  59:50  
yeah. And we've actually been early adopters of Coinbase. I think back in 2013, there weren't a lot of places where you can even buy crypto and Coinbase was one of the only it was the only United States based exchange where you can connect it to your bank of america account and start buying cryptocurrency. And nowadays, I think over the last year, the media picked up cryptocurrency for better or for worse, it's been, like, featured in every kind of publication. And now even like my mom, who doesn't know a lot about technology is talking about buying crypto outside of the hype, what doors Do you see crypto opening up? And similar to the idea maze? What do people should like pay attention? And how should someone outside the industry approach cryptocurrencies?

Unknown Speaker  1:00:42  
Well, um, so what should people pay attention about? It's, it's a little bit like the internet in the following sense, right? So in the, in the late 80s, early 90s, most people spent zero percent of their time on the internet, right, and then, you know, the median American start to spend a larger and larger and larger percentage of their time on the internet by, you know, 2018, a lot of people are spending 50% or more of their waking hours on the internet, whether that's, you know, selfies on Instagram, or, or Twitter or work, you know, Google Docs and Gmail and so on, you're just always online, right? And usually, for many people more than 50% of their waking hours, right. And in the same way, what I think you can start graphing is the percent of net worth that Americans have in blockchain based assets. And so like, you know, eight years ago, nine years ago, is basically zero percent. You know, like before the invention really 10 years ago before the mention of cryptocurrency, nobody had anything in blockchain assassins. And now it's, you know, on a non like a, like a significant percentage, or let's say, a non zero, maybe more precise and non zero percent of Americans have a significant fraction of their net worth in cryptocurrencies, right. But the thing about the blockchain is, it's going to not just be currencies, but it's going to be stocks, and it's going to be bonds. And it's going to be mortgages, and it's going to be loans, and derivatives and real estate, and, and also video game swords and collectibles and baseball cards and anything else that's scarce. Right? So it's programmable scarcity. So the same way that the internet went from like, basically zero percent of your time to like 50% of your time, blockchain based assets are going to go from basically zero percent of your net worth to like, what your net worth is in like 20 years. It's like all the crypto stuff because it's just better when it's blockchain ified Now, that's still in some ways was funny. That's like a quasi controversial statement today. Because there's folks are like, Oh, the blockchain isn't good for much, whatever. But like a lot of the guys at banks who, you know, know about this, I've seen this thing coming for the last five years. And, and we'll under underline that. And it's certainly fairly, fairly obvious if you're in tech, and you're looking at the hundreds of companies that are coming up in all these different areas. And, you know, some of them will work today, some will work tomorrow, some will work in the future. Like, you know, for example, with the internet web and did not work, lots of delivery startups not work. And then instacart really worked, right. So I'm not saying they're all gonna work immediately, but I'm gonna say over 20 years, pretty much everything scarce is going to be blockchain based. So that's like, the long term potential of the space.

Unknown Speaker  1:03:13  
Yeah, yeah, that's really strong. So yeah, so I know, like, before we go into the lightning round, we like to highlight not just executives, but also like people on the team, and oh, we've you've worked with Hasib, who went to advocaten, which is coding boot camp, and he joined your team, you hired him on your team at 21. That turns around, and then you also work with preethi, who has also been a podcast that was an investment banker was at Andreessen and what with you there? So kinda like what we thought about them, given that they had non traditional backgrounds? Why did you hire people like us even things like that, and then we'll go to lightning round.

Unknown Speaker  1:03:45  
Sure. So you know, I know has even pretty pretty well, I'm pretty I met her when I was a GP at Anderson, and she was a junior partner there. And she, you know, struck me as being like very smart and hardworking and whatnot. I was impressed with the fact that she had gone from USC to Goldman, which is a leap that it's actually kind of hard to make, because Goldman's very selective about where they recruit from then from Goldman a16z, but I was even more impressed with the fact that she then self taught herself, you know, programming and pure science and got good enough to get a job at Coinbase which is very selective and rigorous, you know, engineering interview process. And, you know, since then she's been involved with various cryptocurrency startups and now as you know, running true story, and yeah, I thought I think she's just really a great example of tenacity and pull yourself by your bootstraps, kind of kind of energy on Hasib is you know also very smart coming from a somewhat different path. He you know, was like a really competent online not online, I'm so sure. Online, poker online. I'm not sure if it's online poker offline poker is really competent poker player and won a lot of money with that, and then self taught himself engineering and got a job at Airbnb. and prove himself. There's pretty competent guy. And then after that, then, you know, he was I actually met him at this, like aetherium, you know, kind of event, and we got talking and he joined earn. And now recently, you know, I, he's a partner at meta stable, which is a crypto crypto hedge fund. And, you know, it's run by a very good friend of mine, Deval and you know, all those folks are my friends.

Unknown Speaker  1:05:26  
Nice. Awesome. And just to highlight that they're also our podcast guests. Yeah. seeps story talks about how he got his job at ABB, I think episode five or something. So definitely check out their stories. Yeah. So at this point in the podcast, we did a lightning round. And this is where I turn, Ruben will ask you questions. And these questions are meant to help our listeners get strategies and resources that you would recommend they use to get to their career goals, based on what you've done in the past. So Archer, take it away. Yeah. So this question takes us back to the basics. So imagine you just got dropped in a new city, you only have $100. And you're starting from scratch again, and you're trying to break into tech. So how would you spend that $100?

Unknown Speaker  1:06:11  
Like, so I'm like at zero, and the only asset I have is 100 bucks.

Unknown Speaker  1:06:15  
So yeah, let's say you don't have the skill yet. But you're trying to break into tech. So how would you spend $100 to level up and get a job in tech,

Unknown Speaker  1:06:22  
zero assets? Let's say you have housing.

Unknown Speaker  1:06:24  
Okay, so

Unknown Speaker  1:06:26  
housing is taken care of

Unknown Speaker  1:06:27  
drive a computer, you have a

Unknown Speaker  1:06:30  
PLC, you have a computer, okay, Public Library.

Unknown Speaker  1:06:33  
Um, what I probably do is I would,

Unknown Speaker  1:06:39  
let's see, 100 bucks,

Unknown Speaker  1:06:42  
I guess I would buy a domain name. And then I would learn to code from free online tutorials. And I would post up that stuff there. And I'd spend the money on. Like, you know, maybe AWS, even though each of us has a free tier, it's got like EC to Google Cloud has free tier stuff, and so on. And so what I try and do is, actually there was, there's a lady who did this a while back, like called, like, 100 days of code, where she just was like, Okay, look, you know, it's like a painter who draws the same portrait, but does it like 100 days in a row, and eventually just gets better and better, right. And so you do something like that, where, you know, you've got the domain, so you're kind of sure you're serious. So it's like you can get from Namecheap or something for a few dollars. And then pretty much everything else is free, other than maybe the computer time. And you just do the kinds of projects you can do on an EC two micro instance. And, and all of that would be free. And then you just, as you build that portfolio of all this open source code that you've got, you just like, you know, you've got 200 startups that you've gotten a Google spreadsheet, and you find an engineer there, and you say, Hey, is this cool? You follow them on Twitter, you reply to their comments, you know, you comment on their blog, and you try to add value. That's, like, really important. Your first interaction with somebody generally shouldn't be an ask, it should be a gift. And I do believe that if you kind of do that enough, then folks be like, wow, that guy was really helpful. Right? on. And, you know, this, of course, assumes you have time, right? You You have a roof over your head, you have food, like, I'm not able to solve those problems. You know, that's, that's hard. But But if you have time, if you have food, if you have like this public library computer, that's how you bootstrap yourself.

Unknown Speaker  1:08:24  
Yeah, no, that's, that's good. Let's go feedback. And no, given that the first ask on Twitter shouldn't be, you know, given that it shouldn't be an ask, I've always wanted to ask you this, because like, I know, I was following you for a long time before we connected. And then eventually, you said, You sent a DM that said, we should get you into tech, like what actually got you to say that?

Unknown Speaker  1:08:45  
I thought you're really resourceful guy. You know, I think I could sense that sort of spirit of, you know, resourcefulness that I see in good entrepreneurs. And as like, you know, you're someone who would do well there. That's why I said,

Unknown Speaker  1:08:59  
Yeah, no, I appreciate that. Appreciate that. And then you also talked about these monthly things that are in your head that you repeat. So we like to talk a lot about mindset as well. And so, you know, what are what's your routine? Like? What's bazis routine in the morning during the day? What music do you listen to? What inspires you when you take breaks? Like, what what do you do?

Unknown Speaker  1:09:18  
Sure. So like, what's my routine? Like? Well, I'll usually come up with a few words that summarize what my priorities are, and I'll put them on my phone. So it's like, A, B, C, and D, right? And like Kwazii rhymes or whatever, right? And so then every time I open my phone, I'm seeing ABC and D. So even if I'm, like, not even constantly reading, it's going to my subconscious. So usually a is the most important project that I need to work on that day, right? And so like, Okay, if I've done nothing else, I move the ball forward on a, then I've got some time I move the ball on B, and then C and then D in that order. And generally you don't have the time to move things for more than three or four axes at the same time. She also wanted to find what an endpoint is because like if you're constantly doing The same thing. So, so that's like how I kind of, you know, organize my time. And it you know, and then in addition to that I've got like the formal to do list, right. And you should use whatever To Do List you'll actually use, right? Whether it's a Notes app or the reminders app on the phone, I use Emacs org mode, if you guys you may or may not know what that is. But it's like a second engineer's To Do List kind of app, right. And, you know, just just something that you'll actually use is the to do list. So that's how I organize my time on. And often it'll be things where I feel like on a daily basis, or weekly basis, I'm not making too much progress. But then on a monthly basis, or a yearly basis, I look back, I'm like, I, you know, actually, I kind of got a lot of stuff done. Because what I try to do is, aside from those, like major priorities, I set almost everything else to zero. Right? Like, and that's easier if you don't have the desire to go to the club, right? Like, I don't have the desire to go, Florence, Italy, or whatever, you know, I just don't care about traveling just good. For some people, it's fine. Right? Um, and, you know, so then, well, I do recreationally. There's like, there's a book that I basically like a book and a half that I read and reread over and over again. And it's, um, there's, there's a Princeton guide to pure mathematics and applied mathematics. And these two books are like, they're like encyclopedias, but that are really wonderful, because you can just like read one page at a time, or you can read the whole chapter at a time. And you can just like, read and reread these, they're just like, you know, for that kind of person. They're fun, fun to read. So that's like something I'll do it's

Unknown Speaker  1:11:37  
like math proofs and things like that.

Unknown Speaker  1:11:39  
It's like math, it's like an introduction to various math concepts, right? And you know, what it's like, is just being in the middle of nowhere, and being able to like pull ups with your brain. Right? So it's like, Okay, let me knock out whatever. Right. Um, and, yeah, so now, what I, what I used to do is I used to actually work out all the time, and I used to be in really good shape. And now, you know, with startups, and like fatherhood and all that type of stuff that, that that has obligate, you know, especially as like, an executive or CEO, you don't have as much control over your schedule. And so, you know, that's something that I want to get back into, like, as like the first bit, but certainly on those days, where you work out, you're, you know, in like, you know, top mental condition as well. So I think that should be an ideal part of a routine, even if it's not necessarily on a daily basis.

Unknown Speaker  1:12:25  
Cool. And we're about to wrap up. This is the last question. So it's a bit of a doozy. So if you could be born at any time in history, either past or future. What time would you choose and why?

Unknown Speaker  1:12:39  
Now? Yeah, no, I mean, like, you can learn I mean, this is it, given all the negative stuff, whatever, sometimes it's in the headlines. You know, I think the best is in front of us, right? Like, so much better to have running water and internet and, and all this stuff today, then even like 150 years ago, when you didn't have that stuff. And I think that's like, you know, assuming civilization continues, that's usually going to be the right answer, like the best time to burn us down.

Unknown Speaker  1:13:07  
Awesome. Cool. What's the best way to stay in touch via

Unknown Speaker  1:13:10  
Twitter? Beautiful, sure LCS, everybody. So without further ado, thank you for taking time with us. And yeah, let's make it

Transcribed by https://otter.ai
