Unknown Speaker  0:03  
Now, final and third opportunity of the day to hear from our innovators under the age of 35. And this track will be opened by Enrique lugnuts aluminous, the director of eila Avada.

Unknown Speaker  0:24  
Except it's not me, okay. Sure.

Unknown Speaker  0:30  
He's my brother.

Unknown Speaker  0:36  
Okay, everybody. So five years ago, several of my colleagues and I left Stanford to do something, which at the time, we thought would be a fairly simple idea, which is to build a single pre pregnancy test for all men, delian conditions. Now think about Mendelian conditions, as you may remember from high school biology, is that they are, you know, conceptually simple, but they have serious consequences. And the thing about them is, if you can do a test before pregnancy, and you've got a couple that's at risk that has, you know, carrier wheels, recessive wheels, for too many alien, or primitive alien condition, 25% of their children are potentially going to have this condition. And if you test them beforehand, you can do something, for example, called in vitro fertilization, plus pre implantation genetic diagnosis, you can actually implant an embryo that will not have the condition. So there's a preventive step that you can take, and if you can do this test. And so our thought, you know, in theory, Our idea was just use new sequencing and genotyping technology, there's this incredible decrease in prices due to the super exponential decline, you know, faster than Moore's law. And, you know, there's tests for sickle cell and cystic fibrosis and Tay Sachs, but they're actually also a long tail of Mendelian disease, many individual diseases, which are collectively quite frequent. And so there is this is, you know, what we're going to do, and being Stanford guys who went and started a company named counsel to this, and that was the theory. In theory, though, theory and practice are the same in practice, not so much. And so, you know, the computational biology and molecular biology, that was the easy part, you know, I wish we had just had to do integrals of Gaussians. But to actually validate the test, to you know, get through regulatory, to get insurance coverage to do clinical integration, to, you know, set up a support infrastructure and a genetic counseling infrastructure to counsel our patients that tested positive to build a supply chain for all of these delicate reagents. And finally, to build out the robotics infrastructure was actually much more than we had bargained for at the beginning. We ended up basically, you know, building a robotic sequencing factory, on a probably the first of its kind, you know, runs 24 seven, it's fully automated, just runs all the samples through because, you know, to do something, single handily with a pipette is one thing, but to scale it up to, you know, 10s of thousands of patients, hundreds of thousands of patients a year is quite something else entirely. So, as of today, we are now when the largest clinical genome centers in the world, we're doing 13% of all US birds up from zero percent three years ago, we've identified more than 1000 couples that were at risk for delian diseases, and we've saved the healthcare system more than 100 million dollars for both parents and children. So that's me. I'm Balaji Srinivasan. I'm the co founder of counsel. Thank you.

Transcribed by https://otter.ai
