Unknown Speaker  0:04  
You're listening to secrets you're scaling a good word podcast that explores the growth secrets of successful founders and CEOs. If you've been enjoying secrets or scaling, we ask that you head on over to iTunes to give us a rating a review that way people just like you will also discover the founder stories that we've been sharing. Thank you so much for tuning in this episode, we spoke with Balaji and do have 21 and partner at Andreessen Horowitz. Hey, Balaji Welcome to the secret to scaling to kick things off, can you tell us a bit about what 21 is, who your customers are and what your business model is?

Unknown Speaker  0:34  
Yeah. So basically, if you're an individual train, one allows you to replace your public email with an inbox that pays you. So the idea is that as you receive messages that rank ordered by the amount of money attached, and not the time received, so you're actually rank ordering messages by the value to the sender in the value to you not just you know, in terms of recency as a business, because you've got this capability, you can now finally pay people to reply to important business emails, or do things like filling out surveys or completing tasks in a word, it's paid email or phrase, the under the hood, it's based on digital currency. One thing that relatively few people know is that digital currencies Bitcoin, in particular, were actually based on a technology called hashcash, which was invented in the early 2000s, as a way to put a stamp on email. And so decentralized digital currency actually has its roots in the idea of putting a fee on top of decentralized communication technology, like email. And so we've actually, you know, put that into practice for our customers are both individuals who want to contact, you know, famous people, and so on, as well as companies. They're doing enterprise sales, recruiting and market research. Basically, anything that involves a lot of mass emailing of cold prospects, this model is very simple. We just take a cut of transaction messages.

Unknown Speaker  1:47  
And hey, tell us a bit about your background and how you got involved with 21.

Unknown Speaker  1:50  
Door. Yeah, so my background, I am a Stanford lifer. bsms, PhD in electrical engineering, Ms in chemical engineering. I taught computer science and stats at Stanford for several years. And then I started a genomics company called Council, where I was co founder and CTO. And I did that from 2008 to 2012, has been very successful company, large company more than 100 million dollars in revenue and, you know, pretty large. And after that I joined interesting Horowitz as a partner in 2013. I also taught a, a MOOC course online in 2013, if you heard that term, MOOC massively open online course, on startups that had more than 200,000 students in it, so very large course. And then finally, I co founded 21, in 2013, by only took over a CEO of it in 2015. We said going to part time at Andreessen and full time between lessons 2015. And so that's how I'm basically, you know, running training,

Unknown Speaker  2:43  
I think it'd be great based on your experience to focus on goals for this conversation. So start now, how have you defined and set meaningful goals for both 21? And for Council in the past?

Unknown Speaker  2:54  
Yeah, great question. So, you know, when you start a company, you know, there's there's this massive idea of space search, you know, for example, are you doing a genomics company? Are you doing a robotics company? Are you doing machine learning? Are you doing, you know, dashboards, like, you know, business intelligence, are you doing this, are you doing that, and that is such a broad space on that, yeah, you can use some numbers to sort of, you know, kind of rank order things by kind of their current or potential market size. But even that doesn't really get you that far. Because, you know, for example, with something like Uber, if you were to say, oh, here's a market size of taxis, you'd never believe that they could build such a large company. So initially, you're kind of goal setting has to be qualitative. And it's probably like a zero to one, you kind of think, okay, I believe I can bring this up, and I have some quantitative, you know, measures to say that, you know, I can optimize this or there is a market there and so on, you have to have some quantitative, but the the initial phase of doing a startup is qualitative, it's zero to one phase. And then the other aspect of it is that, I think, you know, doing startups in general, you know, that they're challenging enough that, you know, I'm sure there's some people who can do them just for the money, but there's many other ways of making money that are lower risk and, and, you know, less stressful. Well, goal setting is certainly part of the initiation phase of a startup, there usually also has to be some ideological or motivational, inspirational, like return spiritual component as to why you actually want to do this thing. It has to be something where, you know, it's, I believe more than money, and often, that's because if this thing already existed, then you would just buy it, but then you have to bring into being and a great example of that is something like what Elon is doing with, you know, SpaceX, you know, he could not buy rockets at cheap, you'd actually have to go and build them. So that's like at the beginning, his qualitative goal setting as well as kind of a mission mission driven sort of thing. Then once you kind of get on the road, you will iterate to get a so called lock and key fit or product market fit and you will turn that qualitative thing into something where there is a market for it. And then at that point, once you've started getting, you know, 10 2030 customers that's at the enterprise size and the consumer side probably be, you know, a few thousands of customers or what have you, you can start to think, okay, now we've got something, we've got that initial, you know, burst of flame, can we start optimizing it, and the ultimate thing that you want to get to, of course, for a business is profit. And there's there's all kinds of subsidiary metrics, then that lead into profit based on what vertical you're in, and a16z, we've got a good post on this, like 16 metrics, these are domain specific metrics, you know, if you're marketplaces gmv, if you're a social network, it's like da us. You know, there's other kinds of metrics for hardware startups and so on. And then there's, you know, metrics that are upstream of those, like, for example, turnaround time, which impacts your gmv. And that ultimately impacts your profit, I would say, yeah, you know, you have to start with qualitative goals. Once you get something working a little bit, you can decide when to start imposing quantitative goals. I think us also, you know, what advice would you give yourself, you're starting this process all over again, I don't know if I would do it any differently, because, you know, I came out of a computer science and statistics background. So I was, quote, data driven, and doing data science before that was even like it like a term. So it was obvious to me, I think, relatively early on that we wanted to graph and chart almost everything and do exploratory data analysis. But certainly in 2017, it's much, much easier to be data driven from the beginning, because there's all this modern, you know, dashboard technology, like you know, what geckoboard has, and other companies. And so there's less reason to not, you know, have metrics as soon as you can, because you can just push a few buttons and get them,

Unknown Speaker  6:37  
I'd love to unpack that a bit to start with the zero to one face, you talked about that. The why, where you're setting qualitative goals, give any advice for founders on how to best communicate that and how to create the connection between that and the first quantitative goals that they set, especially when building a team?

Unknown Speaker  6:55  
Yeah, so I mean, with the qualitative goal, you start out with some end state of the world that you'd like to achieve, for example, you'd like to get life extension, or you want to put people on Mars, or you want to build new cities, or you want to do something, you know, somewhat less ambitious, like, um, you know, change, you really hate the way HR is done. And so you want to change HR or something like that, right. And usually, it springs from, you know, some sort of passion for it, often a positive passion, but sometimes a negative passion, like, man, I really hate the way that insurance companies work in health care. And, you know, man, you know, I hate that so much that I'm going to try to fix it. Right? You start with that, and then you look at old business models and the SpaceX potentially support that and, you know, then you start modeling out, okay, if this did work, what could the impact be? You know, would we make enough money to make this, you know, worthwhile, and investment and so on. So that's kind of the bridge between the qualitative and the quantitative, the qualitative is like the compass heading. And then the quantitative is, you know, kind of your measurement of progress along the compass heading, but you can't, you can't use metrics and choose really what direction you're going into?

Unknown Speaker  8:03  
And how do you rally your team around these goals, while ensure that they're also aligned with that big vision?

Unknown Speaker  8:09  
Well, I think, you know, basically, you want to show how increasing that quantitative metric achieves the qualitative goals as an example of my previous company. So, you know, now we've done close to a million people, you know, a million couples have been tested. And, but, you know, just getting to the first thousand couples was this huge deal. Because, you know, all of us a lot of us had been PhDs working on, you know, genome sequencing and so on before, it was even a thing that, you know, was known about in public and say, hey, look, all that work that we did in academia, all that, you know, Seidel investment, the Human Genome Project, it's now actually paying off everything that was promised 10 years ago, it's actually paying off, we just need to fix these bugs. And we need to work overtime for you know, a few more days, few more weeks, we get to this thousand marker, that's like a magic marker, right? So that's an example like, of, you know, how you sort of tried to say, okay, unless you've actually put it into production and executed on it, and actually shipped that many, you know, actual patient samples and done it to high quality level, you can't say that all the scientific work has actually produced anything. And so in this fashion, you can you can kind of align the quantitative metric and show how it's achieving the qualitative goals. And of course, it doesn't hurt that that quantitative metric, you know, you make, you know, $1,000 for every customer, and you done 1000, he made a million dollars, right?

Unknown Speaker  9:29  
So, do you distill the quantitative goals down from like, staring at the company's quantitative goals, to make revenue, right, essentially, and then do to sell them by department and then by individual to keep everyone kind of motivated, so they know that the impact that they're having, or do you take a different approach?

Unknown Speaker  9:46  
Yeah, so you can do that for a sales team and maybe some extent for marketing, but it's pretty hard to do for engineering in the sense that you know, a sales rep, they have some territory or they have some customer segment and has Have a quota. And it's kind of a lone wolf II kind of thing. I mean, salespeople work together to some extent. But you know, for the most part, you have a prospect list, you split it up. And then there's a point of contact, and that person sort of lives or dies, at least that sales culture live or die based on how many cells, whereas with engineers, it's the connection to value is much more abstract. It's not as obvious you can't say this keystroke or this line of code, or what have you led to this, this customer, it's not, it doesn't work quite like that. And somewhere in the middle is kind of like marketing where, you know, a marketer has a bunch of channels, and they have initiatives, and you can track the CAC and you can track the LTV. And you can see whether that marketers initiatives are paying off. It's not quite as accountable, typically as a salesperson, because marketers don't have quota in exactly the same way. But it's, it's closer to them than it is to engineers. So I'd say that, yes, you can certainly kind of make people accountable. But it's a little bit of a double edged sword. Because if you are too short term thinking about that, if every salesperson knows that they just miss one quarter, then you're gonna fire them. Well, okay, you know, you're, you know, you have achieved a short term goal, but maybe you haven't achieved the long term cultural goal you'd want because you want to be able to back those people, if, you know, they have like one down quarter or what have you. At the same time, you'd also want them to back you as a company, if you had one down quarter, right? So I think that going to capitalistic about it in two, quantitative can can kind of be a short term optimization of expensive long term,

Unknown Speaker  11:34  
what would you say is the in your experience, the best way to keep an engineering team engaged and motivated?

Unknown Speaker  11:40  
Well, I would say, you know, engineers are motivated by a few different things. So first is flexible work hours, because you know, just just ability to work in quiet and peace, or with their headphones or in a quiet office, and so on. So work conditions are important. Second, and this is not necessarily in priority order, but in numerating them. Second, it's important that they feel that they're doing something meaningful, either from a technological standpoint, like messing around with cool technology, or from a market impact standpoint. And third, they should like the folks that are around that there should be a, you know, equal culture to the organization. And I know the word culture is hugely overused. Basically, it refers to, you know, what tools are you? Do we go to lunch and dinner, you know, do we hang out together as a company, and you know, what things are valued, and what things are not valued. All those kinds of things are culture, and often they're not written down. And they're implicit in the relatively small, early stages of a startup. And then as you add in more people, those folks have to become acculturated. And if you don't acculturate them, and you grow too fast, then you bring in folks from outside that have their own culture, and then it becomes this mainstream culture. And the mainstream is not what built that initial company. So it's very, very important to kind of protect those kind of unwritten behavioral practices, making them written and more formalized over time as a company grows. And that requires the ability to articulate what they are, and then actually put them into practice. I know it's a bit of a digressive answer. But that's a, that's how we think about engineering.

Unknown Speaker  13:04  
Yeah, and don't want to digress from our focus too much. But any, like high level tips for how to maintain that culture, for lack of a better term,

Unknown Speaker  13:12  
that is, doing one on ones with people frequently is good, the extent that you can, and once you can't, then you should have your, you know, in SEO, you should have your managers in one on one such that every person at the company has a one on one with their direct manager at least once a week, and ideally more freakin than that you're sitting next to them and so on, but a formal one on one. And if you do something like that, then you will just have constant touch. And you know, folks will be able to speak what's on their mind and so on, you should get an early warning, if things are not going in the right direction person

Unknown Speaker  13:46  
gears a little bit, from your perspective, what's the future of Bitcoin? And how will it impact tech businesses who are just beginning to scale if it will even impact them?

Unknown Speaker  13:56  
Good question. So I think future Bitcoin in particular, I think is quite bright, you know, in 2013, you know, and earlier, there's so many different articles that said, Bitcoin is going to die, Bitcoin is dead, etc, etc. There is an issue right now in the community, the so called, you know, block size or fee issue. I believe that'll be solved. But basically, I think, bitcoins rule at a minimum as a digital gold is, I would say, at this point, pretty well established. And, you know, Gold's worldwide market cap is 2 trillion and Bitcoin is only something like, you know, 20 billion right now. So then just based on the digital gold application, that's the only thing that you grant that Bitcoin is good for. There's like 100 x growth in Bitcoin. And so I think that Bitcoin is going to become a bigger and bigger and bigger deal over time, so I'm pretty bullish on it. I'm also bullish on all the spin off stuff that Bitcoin has inspired. And there's an enormous amount of it. There's both public and private blockchains and the distinction is a public blockchain like Bitcoin like aetherium and so on, as it usually like a currency calorie carrying thing where no one economic entity has the authority to update it. And a private blockchain is something that you use within a consortium, or potentially even within a single company, where it's sort of like an intranet. It's usually you know, measuring transfers of something of value. And it's time stamping them and attaching them. So you, you know, the order in which things are moved around. But it is something where one economic actor or a few economic actors can choose to rewrite history or add or grant permissions and whatnot, then, in addition to public and private blockchains is all of these spin off and related decentralized concepts like file coin, and ipfs, or new aetherium name system, or decentralized apps built on aetherium, or things like urbit, which are actually, you know, in some ways predate Bitcoin, but are related to it, there's a bunch of these decentralized technologies that are coming pretty fast. And I think they're going to be at the center of tech over the next decade. And it's going to take a while for that to build because right now, it just kind of a subculture. But you know, roughly compared to where I don't know, let's say social was in, you know, oh, 4207 or six, people kind of knew it was getting big, you know, if you're a tech aficionado, you were paying attention to it, but the wider world hadn't had it. And then suddenly, within a few years, a billion people were on Facebook and and then it became something that social features are baked into every app, I definitely don't think digital currency, and blockchains in general, and decentralization in the most general and Bitcoin specific, are relevant every tech business today, within five years, I expect they will be let me give you one example. I think that within five years, you'll probably see that 10 or 10%, or more of companies choose to do a token sale in lieu of an angel round. Basically, a token sale, also called a so called initial coin offering or Ico is if you founded a company and went public on the same day. And so essentially, rather than having angel investors buy your equity, instead, what happens is you sell tokens to your new web service, it's sort of like a combination of equity and product crowdfunding, because the token is actually a product, like Kickstarter, you know, you sell thousand copies of your new robot prior to manufacturing it, right. But it also appreciates like equity. So it's in this gray area in between, because it goes up in value as your network goes up in value. These token sales are currently in extremely bubbly high, you know, the total market cap of crypto is like 55 billion or something, I think that's going to drop off hard to love these coins have been vertical recently. But I think the concept of doing a token sale in lieu of an angel round is so powerful that it's going to become more and more mainstream, and I think five years probably maybe a conservative timeframe for it to be widely adopted. So I think that's going to be one of the first ways in which your currency becomes very, very mainstream in tech. And then there may be other ways, like, you know, we'll see how successful what we're doing is, but getting people to reply to emails for money is also within a pretty broad application on if that works. And then I'll also introduce another few million for 10s of millions of people to digital currency,

Unknown Speaker  17:57  
this might be an obvious question, but how do you think about change the system, kind of like how Facebook changes the way that we communicate and the way we stay in touch? Right? What do you think like, the bigger impact is?

Unknown Speaker  18:08  
Yeah, so Facebook has a lot of interesting second order consequences that people don't think about too much. One of them is that the penalty for moving physically has been greatly reduced, because you still keep in touch with all of your friends. And that's something where, you know, 15 years ago, that was not the case, if you move, you fell out of touch with your friends. Now, your friends don't even know that you moved, literally, you could have moved three times and you still keep Facebook thread with them. And they'd be like, Oh, I guess she moved to New York or whatever, right? And they don't even know. So that has meant that Facebook has actually made people much more mobile. And I think the effect of that is yet to be fully felt. But it's something that kind of got baked in, in the same way with digital currency, I think one of the biggest impacts is going to be monetization of lots of things that were previously on monetizable, especially like fine grained increments of people's time. You know, right now, in theory, you have some consulting rate, right? That is to say, you know, you have a set of skills. And in theory, you could probably go and rent out your time, you know, for X amount of dollars. In practice, liquidity of that market is not very high right now. But if you had sufficient information, it might be possible, just like you can go on to Twitter, or, you know, Google News, if you go to Twitter, you can type in whatever you're interested in, you can find an active discussion, and you can go and start fighting about it on Twitter, right. In the same way, it would be interesting if you have some skill, and you can just put that in and prove that you have it. And then immediately just starting getting money by doing tasks. Based on that skill. You need to build up the marketplace to get to a certain level of liquidity. But this would essentially mean that any downtime that you have any free time, any spare time, you could convert into money just based on how hard you're willing to work. And that's like a very interesting concept that I think will take some time to get to its full fruition but it's ultimately kind of the direction we're going where anybody can turn their spare time into spare money. So if you want to work another 10 hours a week, just instantly do so just by clicking more buttons. And so the search cost of finding that kind of piece of work is vastly reduced.

Unknown Speaker  20:11  
I mean, as a freelancer, I definitely understand the impact and benefit of essentially inbound leads. It right kind of changes the game for for everyone, but especially for freelancers.

Unknown Speaker  20:23  
Yes, and you get a large amount of volume, you need to make that work in one vertical. There's lots of logistical questions. But ideally, in I'd say, five to 10 years, anywhere, there's a phone, there's a job, right?

Unknown Speaker  20:35  
Yeah, for sure. So this concept of pain or being paid to email or contact someone is really intriguing. And we love that many influential people are donating their piece of causes that they feel is important. What impact has this had and helping founders and investors manage their time and bandwidth?

Unknown Speaker  20:53  
Yeah, so good question. So well, first is, you know, we've raised actually quite a lot of money now for Black Girls CODE and other, you know, good causes. And I think there's essentially two different kinds of users on our platform, there's the save time people, and there's the make money people. And the same time, people, they don't want to get a ton of messages. But they are interested in hearing from folks who are willing to pay essentially, this somebody who is you know, CEO, or they're an investor, and they don't, you know, they get enough messages per day that they don't necessarily want more. However, if somebody is willing to pay them, like 100 bucks, Well, sure, they'll pay attention to that, that might be actually you know, worth doing. By contrast, the make money, people kind of just want to see how much spare cash they can make, by answering focuses surveys and emails, right. And, essentially, these are folks often who are still actually exact and fairly senior people, but they are just kind of interested to see how far this thing goes, right. And there's the fun part of building a digital currency of kind of donate to charity in their spare time. And so now our way of thinking about it is, even a busy exec will often also have a Facebook account. And just like they will accumulate Facebook friends, they can build up a 21 balance, and arguably, you know, the money is more useful, then, you know, social stats, like the number of likes on their posts, or whatever is more evanescent and fleeting, then 500 bucks in their account where they could, you know, buy somebody a dinner with that. So, so I think those are kind of two different demographics. And basically, I think, what it also does, is it puts a lot of onus on the sender to actually craft a really good message. And what's interesting is most email nowadays is business to business communication, because intra business communication is be taken over by slack. And intra personal communication has been taken over by, you know, Facebook and Twitter, Facebook for, you know, friend to friend and Twitter for, you know, like, it's personal, but it's not with friends with acquaintances, or with folks who share interest. But business to business communication currently still runs on email. However, senders really, really care about getting replies. And all these inside sales teams, all these recruiting teams would spend a lot more effort on making it easy and you know, worth your while to reply if they have the tool chain to do so. And so I think we're starting to fix that market. Don't call it market failure. But let's say that that market need right now. And what it does, it means that the center because it put in more effort, the receiver

Unknown Speaker  23:18  
has put in less time and gets more money.

Unknown Speaker  23:21  
Gotcha. It's so it kind of gamifies like kind of gamifying for a cause for affluent people. That's actually,

Unknown Speaker  23:30  
that's right. So basically, it means you can kind of donate to charity in your spare time. And so you know what, like, raise a few thousand dollars in a month, like or a year, depending on your traffic? It's pretty good. You know, it's better than nothing. Yeah.

Unknown Speaker  23:42  
Switching gears again, a bit, would you say that you've established work life balance as a founder?

Unknown Speaker  23:47  
Yeah. I mean, like, you know, I'm married with one child. So I think I have a reasonable work life balance. I don't have a lot of hobbies outside of tech. So you really feel too much like work to me, my wife is also into tech and no child is young. But if you're into tech, too, I do think that if you like to party and do a lot of things that are not work related, it's it's hard to do that and do a startup. I do think However, it's possible to get good sleep, good exercise, and do a company I don't think it's possible to have like, extremely busy nightlife and get good sleep and good exercise and do a company I don't think all three

Unknown Speaker  24:22  
days that makes sense, and plus a good sleep and the exercises help you be more productive anyway. Right. Cool. Well, last question as an experienced founder, and a partner at Andreessen Horowitz, if you're going to give any piece of advice to founders who are just beginning a scalar business, so let's say pass out like 30%. Mark, you talked about the beginning of our conversation, what would that piece of advice be?

Unknown Speaker  24:44  
Yeah, so one piece of advice, I'd say, you know, when they're beginning to scale their business, that probably means there's some metric that's starting to really work like users or, you know, revenue growth or something like that. I think a very good piece of advice is, especially as a lot of new people. Come into the company, because that's normally what scaling means to make sure to include a second measure of quality to compensate for possible gaming of the first metric. For example, if you incentivize salespeople on the basis of revenue, you should also look at customer feedback and or, you know, churn rate or something like that, or profit, you know, maybe you want ideally in such a sale to be on the basis of profit rather than revenue. Another example is, if you, you know, try to grow users, you should definitely pay very close attention to churn. Because if you just pay, you know, recompensate, or incentivize or tell people, it's good to get lots of users, and you don't measure what is happening to these users, and are they turning out, then you're in real trouble. So this is basically very, very important to look at a second visual quality to compensate for gaming of the first metric.

Unknown Speaker  25:45  
Awesome. That's a great piece of advice, and something we go for definitely agree with.

Unknown Speaker  25:51  
Yeah, and whether it should say it's not, it's that doesn't originate from Andy Grove of Intel. But I think it's like his book high up and just got reissued instead of forward from Ben Horowitz, co founder, James Roberts. worth reading. Yeah,

Unknown Speaker  26:06  
we actually, we recently talked to a bunch of people who kind of fit into our buyer persona, and almost all of them recommended as a read. So I'm glad you brought that up. Cool. Well, thank you so much for joining us today. Thank you. Thank you for listening to geckoboard secrets for scaling podcast. If you know someone who you think would be a great guest or secrets or scaling, or if you want to share your own scaling story, email me anytime at Shannon at geckoboard comm we'd love to have you if you've been enjoying secret tree scale and please consider giving us a review on iTunes. We'd appreciate it

Transcribed by https://otter.ai
