Unknown Speaker  0:00  
All right. Okay, so my talk

Unknown Speaker  0:03  
is going to be

Unknown Speaker  0:04  
pretty different than the other talks of the conference, some more aimed at the hoodies in the audience versus the suits. But I will try to make some notes of relevance for those who are watching it up. But yeah, so we're talking about today. And you know, the title here, I'll actually relate to the the title that's in the agenda. In a few slides we're going to talk about here today is something that we call the machine payable web. And the concept is a web where basically machines are earning Bitcoin on every HTTP request. Now, who here knows what an HTP request is? Just show of hands. Okay, all right, well, every time you load a webpage, that's an HTP request that's happening, since a lot of HP requests. So if you're earning Bitcoin and every HP request, it could be a lot of Bitcoin. So it could be important. So make work the paying attention. Okay. So what we think is that there's actually going to be a third web, right? And by a third web, what we mean is, there's right now two webs that people are familiar with, there's the the World Wide Web, right, where you've got documents that are linked to each other, right, via hyperlinks. And you've got the the social web, where you've got links between people, and you've got likes and pokes and tweets and so on flowing between them. And we think there's going to be a

Unknown Speaker  1:22  
third web of machine web,

Unknown Speaker  1:24  
where the links are actually payments between machines. And we call it the machine payable web or the machine went for sure.

Unknown Speaker  1:33  
Now, the thing about this is, you might ask, why would we need something like

Unknown Speaker  1:36  
that? Why do we want a machine payable web in the first place? And the reason is because paywalls are actually a lot worse than you think. And by paywall, what I'm referring to, by analogy,

Unknown Speaker  1:47  
you've probably seen, you know, go

Unknown Speaker  1:49  
to the Wall Street Journal website, you get this paywall over here, and what do you do usually go and take the URL? Sorry, Paul have Ignis in the audience. You take the URL upholding this article, you paste into Google and you go and you try and see the article for free, right. And the reason you do that is because you're actually paying in a totally different way, you're not

Unknown Speaker  2:07  
paying the Wall Street Journal. Unfortunately,

Unknown Speaker  2:09  
you're paying Google and you're paying Google not via paywall over here, you're paying Google via micro payments, you're paying them via micro payments in the form of an ad. Okay, so this is a way that we monetize content on the web. It's either via, you know, paywalls, or it's via ad based micro payments, right? Now, the issue is that if you're talking about machines, if you're a developer,

Unknown Speaker  2:28  
well,

Unknown Speaker  2:29  
you only have the option of using PayPal, so probably you've heard of AWS here, Amazon Web Services. If you're a developer, you've certainly heard of it.

Unknown Speaker  2:37  
And the thing is that Amazon Web Services signing up or something like that is very

Unknown Speaker  2:40  
much like signing up for the Wall Street Journal, you have to go and put in a credit card, you have to put in your address, and all this information, sometimes ID and all that stuff before you can use more instances. And there's nothing that's analogous to like a no friction signup process where you can just click and rent the machine without any, you know, pre pre authorization. And one way of thinking about this is just by analogy again, right? So if every website had a paywall, right, if every website had a lock in front of it, you wouldn't have the World Wide Web, we know, instead, it'd be something that'd be more like television where you have subscriptions to a few key channels. And then after that, you would not really go out of that layer. Rather than clicking on 10s of thousands of links in the course of a year, you'd click on a few that really be just website focused and directed the places you have subscriptions to.

Unknown Speaker  3:29  
So that's really where machine API's

Unknown Speaker  3:32  
are stuck today, right, they're stuck in this lower left quadrant, they're stuck in a place where they can't link back and forth to each other like documents on you have to go and sign up for each of them individually, there's no circulation or anything there. Right. So, um, you know, one way of thinking about this, and the reason this is there, and this is kind of interesting and subtle point, I think, is that the way that content is monetized is you have a human, and you know, they hit a paywall over here, 1% of them, and they go into pay for the content, but 99% of them, let's just say, just escape, and they don't pay, right. So 1% of them pay 100% of the time, the ultra monetization model is something where you've got a human and all them get to see the content and once in a while one person then get distracted by an ad. And then

Unknown Speaker  4:13  
you know, they've got

Unknown Speaker  4:14  
a situation where there a monetization event, an orange arrow, right.

Unknown Speaker  4:18  
But with machines, the problem is machines don't get distracted. Right? So with a machine over here, the machine, you know, you might set up the paywall over here, and they'll pay. But if you just try giving them the content for free and put up an ad near there, they're never going to get distracted from the goal. They're always

Unknown Speaker  4:32  
just going to barrel right for the API. They're not going

Unknown Speaker  4:34  
to click an ad, right? So machines don't inadvertently click ads. And so because of this in order to actually have this machine payable web, we need a way for machines to actually pay other machines. And for machine web, we need a machine currency and we need Bitcoin.

Unknown Speaker  4:49  
Okay. So

Unknown Speaker  4:51  
yes, and the blockchain the blockchain.

Unknown Speaker  4:56  
Okay, so, now that we've motivated this, right Let's talk about what we're going to do with Bitcoin. So that's why we built 2121 is a free piece of software, you can download it at our website twit CO, which allows you to build a machine payable web. That's to say take any machine any Linux machine, any Mac OSX machine and soon any Windows machine and just

Unknown Speaker  5:17  
run some software

Unknown Speaker  5:18  
and have that machine earning Bitcoin for you and connecting to other machines that also spend and receive that Bitcoin. Okay, she can go to twitter.co, you can download this now, okay. And everyone basically makes Bitcoin the currency of the machine payable web. Okay, and let me explain what that means, and the features that we have in the software.

Unknown Speaker  5:36  
So there's basically three key features, right.

Unknown Speaker  5:39  
The first is that 21 allows you to very quickly get Bitcoin on any device, so you can stall 21. And you can run one of several different kinds of commands to mine, buy, earn, sell, or even get from a faucet send Bitcoin to start using in your programs. The second thing that 21 does, is allows you to add Bitcoin micro payments to your app with literally one line of code. Right in front of any existing web API, you just have this line of code payment required, you can say I want 5000 satoshis per API call, okay? Now, you can actually pass in something much more sophisticated there, you can pass in a pricing function, you can have arbitrary pricing, you can have surge pricing for API's. And so that's pretty sophisticated. That means that you can go and retrofit

Unknown Speaker  6:18  
or build new applications that make use of Bitcoin micro payments, without

Unknown Speaker  6:21  
really even knowing anything about Bitcoin,

Unknown Speaker  6:23  
just put in one line of code.

Unknown Speaker  6:26  
The third thing that we've done is once you build these kinds of applications, so you've gone your Bitcoin, you've added micro payments your application. Now we have basically a marketplace, where you can actually go and exchange Bitcoin for services with other people. And you can earn Bitcoin and every HTTP request, right. And as I mentioned before, there's a lot of HTP requests that could potentially be quite a lot of Bitcoin. So let's go through these features in turn, just to get a feel for them. So first, get back on any device, right, so this is just the fastest way with 21. To get started in any country, you don't need a bank account, you don't need a credit card, you just install 21. And go, let me show you how you do that.

Unknown Speaker  7:01  
So basically, to install 21,

Unknown Speaker  7:03  
you just do this.

Unknown Speaker  7:06  
Curl 21 ko, pipe sh right? Now you can pipe that into less, or what have you, you can preview the script. But bang, you've got it, right, you've just installed 21. There's a bunch of commands, this is very easy to remember. So it's like a trivial installation installs all kinds of dependencies and other stuff, if you want them on that will let you set up servers and so on. Right. So it's a very memorable thing. If you forget the HTTPS, it will prompt you to use HTTPS, so it's pretty aware of errors and so on, right? And once you've installed 21, we've got five different ways built into 21 to get Bitcoin onto your machine, and you can choose whichever one you want, right? You can mine Bitcoin, you can buy bitcoin with our Coinbase integration, you can get Bitcoin from our faucet. And

Unknown Speaker  7:45  
then you can also do two things that don't involve either mining or buying

Unknown Speaker  7:47  
Bitcoin. You can earn Bitcoin by doing micro tasks for 21 and then for others, and you can also sell your machine resources for Bitcoin kind of like an Airbnb for machines. Okay, let's go through these in turn quickly. So when you're talking about mining Bitcoin, if you've got a mining chip detected, you can just go and click you know, enter in 21, mine mining has begun and you can start seeing your your Bitcoin count up, okay? If you want to buy bitcoin with our Coinbase integration, you can just buy bitcoin over here, and the Bitcoin will just be deposited to your wallet, right? So if you want to buy in bulk, that's easy to do. Okay? If you want to just get some Bitcoin without signing up at all, you're just really lazy. Well, you can hear a faucet, right? And we will, you know, we rate limit this in a bunch of different ways. So don't abuse it. But you can just curl to him and co on any machine, get some Bitcoin, start playing with it, do some API calls and so on. You can earn Bitcoin. Okay, and so this is going to be pretty cool. Because this is kind of new, I mean, that people start talking about a Bitcoin economy where people are actually paid in Bitcoin, but we pay small amounts of Bitcoin for very small amounts of work. For example, if you invite a bunch of your friends to 21, you get paid Bitcoin, you get paid more if they've got an institutional email versus a free or a fake email or what have you, right. Other kinds of micro tests like this will be made available. So even if you don't hit the faucet, you can do something there without a credit card in any country to earn Bitcoin for a little bit of work. The fifth and final way is by actually booting up a machine payable server so well, the 21 earn command is kind of an active thing, you're putting in labor and getting back the coin, the tournament sell command is passive, you launch a command and then you go and you get some Bitcoin in the background as it's running. And so all these things combined basically mean that treatment is a very easy way to, you know, you install to anyone, and you can easily get Bitcoin in a number of different ways, right? Okay. So once you you know, have this concept of selling API's for Bitcoin, you might want to build your own, not just the ones that are built into 21. And so you've got the functionality to add Bitcoin functionality to any app. And so it's very simple. here's the here's the before you've got your web app over here, and here's the after and you just put a line payment required over there and you pass in, you know, the the amount that you want to billing. And importantly, that can be an arbitrary function. Okay, request a price over there is something with can be an arbitrary function that takes an arbitrary HTTP request and returns back whatever price you want, you can have a lower price for your friends, you can have a lower price for your family, you can have surge pricing, you can have a higher price if demand. So once, right, so you can have totally dynamic pricing. And you can have that happen in real time in response to computation. The third thing that twentyone gives is basically the ability to earn Bitcoin in every HTTP request, right? So it's a new way to monetize online with machine to machine micro payments. And basically, what you can do here is, once you've built that custom app that we just showed, you add your one line of code, you've added payment required, you can do a 21 publish command over here, and you can submit that to the marketplace. And then others can buy and sell from you in this marketplace. Because the discovery point, it's an index, like Google or eBay, or what have you, you need an index and marketplace for people to find each other and buy and sell from each other. Our currency alone doesn't doesn't do it, you need discovery as well. In addition to discovery, we've got a community. So you can set up your profile over here. So we've got like profile pages and stuff. And you can go to the slack community and find other people who are interested in buying and selling from you and that community is going to expand, because now we've got this this free 21 software. Now, some of you might be asking, okay, this is cool. You've got this free software. But what about your Bitcoin computer? What happens that? And the answer is actually, we've now made every computer into the computer, we've basically taken the Bitcoin computer, which is sort of stage one. And it has essentially three descendants, right. So there's 21 software that we've just talked about. There's the DIY Bitcoin computer over here. And you can just go to twitter.co slash DIY, and we've got full instructions for turning anything into basically a black box that makes you money starting with Raspberry Pi's and no droids, but moving towards any kind of other spare computer, you've got, just put it on your shelf, and I'll make you money in the background. And the third thing we've got is embedded mining, and that's coming up. You know, I don't have time to talk about that right now. But rest assured we haven't forgotten about it. The software basically gives a justification in many ways from better mining because it gives lots of inputs that can actually take Bitcoin and do useful things. Okay, so just in summary, say we just launched some software that basically builds what we think of as a third web machine payable web and with that software lets you do is it makes Bitcoin the currency of that machine payable web allows you to get become any device allows you to add Bitcoin to any app and allows you to earn Bitcoin on every issue request. So this interests you if you'd like to be involved with this, please go and build a machine payable web@turnamen.com. Thank you

Transcribed by https://otter.ai
