Unknown Speaker  0:00  
What's up everyone? This week we have an amazing guest in Balaji Srinivasan belges, a former CTO of Coinbase, the former chairman of 21, Inc, later called earn calm, former partner at a16z and the founder of a successful genomics business. So as you know, he made a splash recently with his announcement of Nakamoto calm, which is designed to be a forum for discussion of cryptocurrency. This caused a bit of rancor in the Bitcoin community. biology is well known for having expansive thoughts on a wide variety of topics. And he's not afraid to share them publicly and solicit feedback in the process of ideation. So we were lucky enough to sit down with him for an hour and get his views. So these included his thoughts on how cryptocurrency is already 100 x improvement over traditional finance, you know, what Bitcoin is good for, and how his views on that have changed over time. His diagnosis of the issues with social media and potential fixes for that, and how digital handles might be better described as property as opposed to just a platform. So this was an absolutely fascinating conversation. It was an education for both of us. I hope you enjoy it

Balaji Srinivasan  1:10  
brought down by bad mortgage investments. Lehman, which has 25,000 employees will be liquidated the federal

Unknown Speaker  1:15  
government loans American International Group, AIG $85 billion. This is a different kind of market and

Balaji Srinivasan  1:23  
the federal government is stepping in to stabilize Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac the two mortgage giants that have been threatened by the housing crisis, the Bank of England has helped 75

Unknown Speaker  1:31  
billion pounds more than Britain's ailing economy, the new round of quantitative easing and

Balaji Srinivasan  1:35  
print a couple trillion dollars and all of a sudden people start to worry so out of this worried we have something called a Bitcoin, Bitcoin.

Unknown Speaker  1:44  
Welcome to the podcast. I am Nick Carter. And I'm Matt Walsh. And we're sitting here in the Coinbase offices with Balaji Srinivasan It's a pleasure to have you on thanks so much. Thanks, guys.

Unknown Speaker  1:55  
It's about you. We're really excited to have you on the podcast today, you're very well known in the crypto asset circles, people know that you're a partner at Andreessen Horowitz, they know that you found it 21. But let's just hopefully just start off with a little bit of background, you're an accomplished entrepreneur, even before crypto. So can you talk a little bit about your career arc and how you got to where you are today?

Balaji Srinivasan  2:13  
Sure, yeah. So um, parents were immigrants, for our immigrants from India. And I grew up in New York and came out to California, when I came to Stanford as an undergrad, got my Bs, MS and PhD in electrical engineering and Ms in chemical engineering, and taught computer science and stats at Stanford for a few years. And basically, in kind of statistical genomics, computational genomics intersection of, you know, genome sequencing and DNA and computer science and stats. And then there's a branch point where, you know, the question was, was it going to be a professor at MIT or Caltech and try and, you know, go down that tenure track route? Or would I take the leap into the unknown and actually go and start a company. And you might think, well, of course, everybody at Stanford, you know, go start a company, but 1012 years ago, that wasn't actually as common an option outside of computer science by itself, right. So being in the bio wing of things, it was a little less common thing, right. And, in fact, a lot of people told me something, which was interesting, they're like, you, if you leave academia, you will be able to come back, because you're going to be rusty, you're not going to have publications for that time period, on and so the career you've spent building up until this point, you're really taking quite a big risk. And, you know, you may not be able to do it, it's actually a bunch of people advices against it. Also, at the time on, there's a company called 23andme, still around, which just announced they've gotten all this funding from Google. And so it'd be like, no, you're just gonna get crushed by them, they have so much money, blah, blah. And, but we, you know, nevertheless, we went and started a company was called counsel, on and I was CTO and co founder of that. And we built it from a dorm room, you know, at Stanford and sold it for $375 million. And it's much harder than it sounds, okay. There's a lot of difficulties that went to that, um, that's sort of how I kind of cut my teeth on entrepreneurship and learned that there was more to life than multi dimensional integrals. Because basically, for the first, you know, 27 years of my life, I was essentially a mathematician, you know, statistician, you know, computer scientists, whatever. Um, and, you know, I exaggerate there, obviously, I knew there was more to life besides that, but I didn't fully understand how challenging business was. Right. And what I mean by that is, I thought the hard part of a technology company was the technology that seemed actually intuitive from the outside, you know, if you nail the algorithms, if you nail the math, if you nailed the biochemistry, well, the rest of it should be relatively straightforward. But what I what I learned was, sales is really important, and your, you know, branding and marketing and management and your supply chain. Oh, and by the way, you know, you can't just have humans in Clinical Laboratory, we needed robots. And so we have to program all the robots. And we needed something to manage all the chemicals in our fridge to make sure they didn't expire because they were inputs this and so it actually became a very complicated operation Oh, and insurance building, and we have 50 different regulatory regimes in different states we have to deal with. And what about shipping and making sure a sample arrives, and it's on ice, like the complexity just explodes. Right? And it's much, much more than just hitting enter on a computer. And so that was useful. It taught me a lot. And after, you know, counsel, I wrote, like, sort of a download, like, like letter to myself, right? Okay, five years ago, 10 years ago, had at being a PhD student, what would I wanted to tell myself about starting a business? What were the things I didn't know that would be useful, um, those turned into course, notes and became the basis of a pretty popular course on Coursera, at about 250 275,000 students is actually quite a lot, even for MOOC course today, and at the time is, like really big. Um, and that was actually one of the first MOOCs maybe, I think, maybe the first MOOC that talked about Bitcoin. And it gave people a Coinbase tutorial. And a lot of folks actually, one of the developers of bitcoin.org got his start from that course. And so a lot of people bought Bitcoin from that course, and it was at like, $10, or whatever. And they thanked me later or whatever. And not that I was, you know, saying to buy, you know, there's we're teaching the technology of it on something where I think a lot of people got their introduction from that. So I did that in 2013. I've also been an angel investor in a number of startups that you might have heard of, like, some notable ones. So Elan superhuman lamda, school, cameo.com kennedy.com is kind of cool, where you can, like pay Snoop Dogg to say whatever you want. Yeah, right. Um, and, of course, a bunch of early cryptocurrencies and what have you.

And then, you know, I joined Andreessen Horowitz as a general partner. And I helped I think boot up both their crypto and their bio arms and did a lot of inner recruiter Vijay Pandey who's you know, basically the first partner on the on the on the bio fund itself there, and worked closely with Chris Dixon on a lot of the the crypto stuff, then I took over CIT, and now comes the camera pans to where people in the crypto space will, you know, kind of see things. Oh, one other thing I did, I basically stayed kind of off the radar, I wasn't on social media or anything like that, until late 2013, resective, very late adopter of social media. And the reason for that is I didn't really understand social media, or rather, let me put it like this. I thought social media was just wasting time. And frankly, it is for a lot of people, right. But what really got me into social media and Twitter were actually two things, the poll, I remember, there's a moment where a colleague of mine was live tweeting a genomics conference. And he was giving a summary of the individual slides and so on, I was like, Man, this is useful, because it saved me a plane trip, it was a much more technically accurate rendition of the events and more detailed than any journalist would normally have cared to offer. And it was public where I could ask questions, and you know, like, say, Oh, hey, did they actually, you know, do 30 x coverage on that or visit a 10 x coverage? You know, just like technical questions like that. I was like, Oh, my God, I can just drink in this whole new stream of information. So that was when I actually learned the power of Twitter for good. or for ill was basically, you know, you know, thing like Lenin saying, you may not be interested in politics, but politics is interested in you, right? You may not be interested in Twitter, but Twitter, Twitter is interested in you, right. And so if you're involved in any controversy, and you're not on Twitter, and you haven't, like built up your kind of thing on Twitter beforehand, you're just going to get crushed, and you're never going to be able to get your own story or whatever out there. Right. Yeah. And nowadays, I think I've, like, I don't want to I don't like jinx it, or whatever. But I've kind of become bulletproof. This is the term I kind of using bulletproof. Yeah, like people use non cancelable. But I like the term bulletproof because like bulletproof but bulletproof, and it's actually a useful metaphor, because you can think of bulletproofing your entire social supply chain in your life, such that you're kind of immune to like these mob attacks, right, you actually think of that as like a not first class, but certainly a top five or 10 problem in constructing company, your entire social supply chain, you want to make sure that any key node is also bully proof. Because one of the supply chain nodes collapses, like a key investor drops out, or, you know, you have a key employee quit or a partner will you know, you know, D platform you from an API, it can shut down your company. So insofar as you expect attacks from certain directions, you can really prove yourself. Um, and, you know, one aspect of that is having enough of a social media following and also I think enough of a confidence in one's own self to to be able to just you know, kind of kind of resist right? So it was kind of Twitter for ill, I saw a lot of people getting dragged, attacked, etc. And, you know, it's like, okay, there's a pole of the knowledge there's a very good there's also the push of, you know, hey, you know, like, you may not be interested in Twitter, but Twitter is interesting. Didn't you? Right. Okay. Um, so you've dealt with this

Unknown Speaker  10:03  
very recently.

Balaji Srinivasan  10:04  
Yeah. But But you know what, like, on the scale of things, I would call that, like, that's a three. Okay, and a 10 on a 10. Right. And and the reason I say that is, to the outside world, a lot of this stuff like that we talked about within crypto just looks like really energetic jets versus giants fans. You know, it's not an issue that animates, you know, it's like Python versus Ruby. Oh, you know, right. It's an issue that animates the general population, and they just look at it as some stupid slap fight within the space. Now, I actually think, um, that if crypto increases 10 or 100 X, which I do believe it will over the next 10 to 20 years, that are internecine issues are going to become like the Bolsheviks and mensheviks, right, like these, it will expand to become a bigger issue society, and you will actually polarize right, um, but it's not there yet. And so that's kind of a tempest in a teacup right now. Um, but just recursing back to 2015, just, you know, finish that up. So, um, I took over a, you know, as I was at Andreessen, um, it helped set up 21 formerly 21, e6. And, you know, basically, I'd been there as chairman and help, you know, set it up, that was full time at Andreessen and the company initially did extremely well, because bitcoin price was high as when the first data center based mining companies made 10s of millions of dollars in the first calendar year, and then it made 10s of millions of dollars, because price crashed, and all this Chinese hash rate came online. And it was in trouble. And to make long story short, took it over in mid 2015. Um, we, we were basically the company was very heavily in debt, it was like negative 50 million, or there abouts on the books on and it was something where the mining product was just not profitable at 200 something dollars Bitcoin, where things were fixed, and beyond the prayer of hope the price goes up, which it eventually did, but you can never know that at the time, you know, when that's gonna happen, I'm gone that prayer, we had to figure out, you know, something to do. We started with basically like, sort of the Hail Mary of, you know, two different problems. One was a try and get out of all of these data center contracts, which were these huge, huge contracts were long terms, on then be figured out how to ship some kind of product, because it's not enough to just cut span, you have to, you know, get revenue going on to make a very long story short, we did put out this, you know, 21 computer, and I still think that there's a lot of aspects of that which are, which are interesting for long term, for example, coin mine COMM And I'm investor and that that's to be doing quite well now. Right? On, and I think a lot of the API's and demos and so on that we did with 21. For example, we had a demo where you pay Bitcoin to view a webpage and a demo, or you pay Bitcoin to send an SMS or for an API call, and so on and so forth.

Unknown Speaker  12:52  
Well, there are companies doing those things coming out.

Balaji Srinivasan  12:54  
Exactly. That's right. So I think a lot of those things were actually like conceptually influential on and, you know, we'll see how many of them come to pass, one thing I want to do is actually go and repost all of our old tutorials, and just kind of update them and update the source code or what have you. So you can just, you know, curl and run them. Um, what happened was basically, we'd been betting incorrectly on micropayments working for Bitcoin in 2015. And there abouts. And for a variety of reasons that became infeasible, you know, in part like the whole Bitcoin Civil War, what have you made clear that you're not going to be able to just do lots of payments on the Bitcoin blockchain? Okay, fine. So, we did work on was of the various applications we had built for that 21, computer pay to email worked right, there was definitely traction with that. So we shifted to that it was like the third pivot, that one actually worked. And so now we were able to turn that into a large and growing business, we're actually profitable at the time the company sold to Coinbase on And today, we integrated that into Coinbase has become Coinbase. Earn, if you go to the coinbase.com homepage, you can earn like $186 in crypto as a new users it's become, it's been a huge thing for Coinbase and Coinbase. execs have talked about it, but it's on hundreds of millions of dollars in sales, you can you can confirm that, for example, if you just go to stellar alone, stellar about a year ago, if you look at stellars announcement of their Coinbase earn deal, they put a billion xlm into Coinbase earn, right and that's like 100 hundred $20 million, or whatever on that order just by itself. And the reason is Coinbase urine has become basically the largest scale customer acquisition channel in crypto. And to understand why that is the case, let's say you've got a new crypto project a new coin on, you know, if you want to acquire customers or users or whatever for that coin, and you have some Treasury with a to do that, and you know, now we're talking about the coin in management kind of a centralized way, right? Well, the obvious option is go and try to do Google Facebook, Twitter ads and and acquire users that way. The problem is first, often those platforms won't even accept you. And if they do accept you, you're losing liquidating your coin and tanking the price for all existing users to acquire new ones. So you're dis aligned with your existing users. And at the end of the funnel, what are you doing, you're going to basically send them to an exchange to go and buy that coin. Right. So there's another customer acquisition channel for the for the for the exchange itself. So alternative is, with Coinbase. Around the reason a lot of coins have done these deals, is they take their Treasury, and they put it in a crypto where channel to crypto where users. And now those crypto where users it's, it's an airdrop it's an earn drop, where they have to do tutorials and they have to actually pass some bar, they have to spend some time on the thing they have to understand it. And in some cases, you have to do a task that's related to that blockchain, for example, with maker dow, you have to have to take out a decentralized loan to get the dye for z cash, you have to send like a shielded transaction or at least I'm not sure if that's live yet. But that's that's on the on the roadmap, right, you have to send a shield transaction, we want them to send a shield transaction to get some Zack right on the bat, you actually have to download the brave browser, which has the bat loaded into it, and you start to actually have something where folks are educated on it. And this serves many different purposes. One is that rather than just dropping undifferentiated coins into somebody's account, like an airdrop, people actually do a little bit of work to earn it. So they value it more. Number two is, um, you know, I think they've published the stats on this. But the vast, vast, vast majority of people hold and don't immediately sell. And then there's another portion of them that buy. And so it's actually something which is not like people just liquidate immediately once they see what the thing can be useful for. Most people hold on a small minority cell and a larger minority by Okay, so then unlike the other example, where acquiring those customers require you to take the price, this is actually neutral, sometimes even positive on the price. Right? Okay. Um, and the other thing about this, which is really useful is it establishes that if people are buying, they're only buying after they've used it. Right? They have seen this is actually a differentiated thing. Oh, that's cool. I can do decentralized loans. Oh, that's private transactions, that's differentiated, right. And so they make the decision to buy after they've experienced utility. So you actually sort of have a receipt that says, hey, 90 99% of the users who bought on actually had utility beforehand. And all of that together is like a pretty good package for the for the acid issuer. On now, for for the user, it's also really good, because they're getting Kwazii, free crypto, I mean, they're earning it right, they're doing something for it, but it's actually kind of a lot of money, right? Hundred 86 bucks is pretty, pretty legit. Right? Um, and of course, for coin base, it's great, because, you know, we are, we are acquiring customers, and we're making them happy, right? Um, one way of thinking about this is

a lens on Coinbase is it's a place to make money for the long term in crypto. And that's one lens, not the only lens. But I'm investing in buying and selling crypto is one way to do that. But what are other ways you can earn interest? Right? You can do staking. These are things which we've offered right? on, you can take out decentralized loans or what have you and go and trade somewhere else, do your own thing. Or you can just earn the crypto directly, which is not buying and selling you're not sending in capital for the crypto, you're saying in time you're doing labor for the crypto, right. And so these are all things which are actually aligned with that general thing of make crypto, you know, make money online, but for the long term, not in a day trading kind of way. So it's bit net is, is become like one of the highest NPS products at Coinbase, or whatever. I just the reason I say this is I kind of think it's been under advertised just given given how huge it is for Coinbase. And how like, you know, how much traction it has? And how large the dollar numbers? Are? It just something that for whatever reason, it hasn't like got in public pickup in awareness in the

Unknown Speaker  18:38  
name. Yeah, good. Now the I think Nick and I are power users or we're power users of the initial email next. Oh, it's a an awesome product. I want to take us back to 2013, which we talked about. So yes. I remember in 2013, I watched the speech that you did at Y Combinator. Yeah, the Silicon Valley's ultimate exit. Yep. And for me, it was a really transformational way in the way in my relationship to Bitcoin. Yeah. So initially, I had viewed Bitcoin through just a pure technology revolution. And watching your speech, it really made me broadly understand the political and economic ramifications of this technology at a societal level. Yep. And so I'm wondering if you can just talk a little bit about how you first heard about Bitcoin and how you got to that point in 2013, where you're able to articulate what Bitcoin is, from a societal level?

Balaji Srinivasan  19:28  
Great question. So um, well, so first, I'll go to my personal history that on, if you want to learn JavaScript, you can learn JavaScript, you don't need to learn any history to understand why JavaScript is useful. You just paste in a snippet into the browser, it just works boom, right? To understand why Bitcoin is useful on and why you can't just send something and PayPal, you actually need some history, right? You to understand, oh, well, money has been seized. Oh, you know, like there's been as well Oh, this is the history of monetary policy and so on and so forth. And so Bitcoin comm With it a bunch of philosophy, which is kind of been missing from the tech industry in some ways, right? Like, um, I don't think all the criticisms of tech are accurate, but I do agree that you can do tech without understanding liberal arts. And that is something which is is a demerit, right? Like, it is good for people to know history to know, philosophy can know literature, you know, that is, that is a good thing. Um, what's interesting is, when it's a necessary thing, I think it's a necessary thing to understand that stuff in order to build products in the space, because, um, it gives you a sense of, alright, these are the things that can be built with crypto that could not be built before. And to understand that you have to know the history of payments and monetary policy or what have you. So So that's kind of why, you know, I talked about some of those aspects in that talk. I think it holds up well today, by the way, like, like a predicted, like the tech lash and a bunch of other things, and I think holds up reasonably well. In terms of my personal history, with with Bitcoin on, I should look back at my email list the exact like, first date or whatever that I got into it. I was definitely aware of it, at least by 2011. On and maybe earlier, I don't remember the exact date, I think, I think 2011 um, and one of the reasons that it caught my attention, there are two reasons. First is

after doing counsel, and after, after doing a highly regulated genomics company, I learned that, you know, as an academic, the worst thing the government can do is not give you money. Okay. Oh, they don't run to my grant. Oh, they're so bad. Oh, my God, NSF isn't renewing my grant. But once you take off the.edu hat on, and you're you put on the.com hat? Well, now the state can just shut you down arbitrarily. There's there is no, there's really almost no limit to what they can do. And and this is something which people who are not entrepreneurs in a regular industry do not understand. The closest analogy I can give is as follows. Think about, you know, you guys have flown recently, right? Yeah, yeah. Okay. Right, all the time. Okay. So for the last 20 odd years, we've had this thing called the TSA, and you go to the airport, and you stand in line, and you make no jokes. Okay, there's no jokes that are made, okay? Because a joke will get you pulled out a line, you might miss your flight, right? And you certainly don't protest, because the monetary penalty of a few hundred dollars of a loss flight or, you know, the meeting on the other end, that's enough to deter you from protesting, okay. Um, but you go through the metal detectors, and you're essentially under TSA jurisdiction for the duration of this time, and then you exit and you're out on their side, and it's an annoyance, but but it's, it's tolerable, right, okay. Now, apply that analogy to entering a regulated industry, you are going into a security line, okay. If you criticize the regulator, or make jokes, you are going to be subject to a retaliatory wait time, that will not be like a missed flight and a few hundred dollars, it will be like a missed regulatory approval, and millions of dollars in a dead company. And once you actually go through that, that metal detector apparatus, and you file, you are under the jurisdiction for the life of the company. And you can't protest and you can't say anything. And so no signals get out. It's like a black hole, that captures all information because anybody who was to protest would just get kneecapped silently in many different ways. Right? And, you know, the the thing about that is, you can there's a great book, by the way, called reputation and power, by Daniel carpenter, on and this book by somebody who's actually much more sympathetic, for example, to the FDA than I am. And, you know, the thing about it is, the FDA has good aspects, it has bad aspects on. But I don't think that those are really discussed in public because when's the last time we elected the commissioner? The FDA? Answer is never. Right. Okay. You know, so many positions in the federal government are not elected, they're appointed the upland book positions, which is a small fraction, or they have career tenure, because they're actually federal bureaucrats. It's like 90 something percent of these positions. Um, and so people don't really actually understand the government under which we live the actual operation, like a lot of attentions on electoral politics, much less on like the permanent bureaucracy, and how draft guidances and guidances, and so on. These are not things that go through Congress, right. These are things that are very much at the discretion of a bureaucrat, and silver spring. Um, and moreover, they don't just apply to the United States, don't harmonization is harmonization. So in the same way that a small website will outsource or login to Facebook or Google, a small country will often outsource a regulation to the United States of America. That's called harmonization. And so this person in you know, Washington DC or silver spring or whatever, Maryland, right on

Unknown Speaker  25:00  
That's where I grew up

Balaji Srinivasan  25:00  
as it okay. But this is a great, so another nice place, whatever. Um, so this person who is they have career tenure as a federal bureaucrat, right? They were not elected and can't be fired. Um, and so they're not accountable by either an electoral or a market theory of accountability. Right. So whether you strapped to either of those, and I think there's arguments for both, they're not accountable on either of those dimensions, right, you can't vote them out of office. And they're also not accountable to the market. But they can put out a draft guidance or guidance that binds not just companies in the United States, but around the world.

That's really crazy. Crazy. Okay. And that's like, talk about a choke point of centralization is actually like a remarkably important thing. And that's not just the FDA, that's the FAA that CSC that's, that's the entire kind of alphabet soup, right? And, and we're not talking about like small things, we're talking about things like stem cells, we're talking about, you know, truly, you know, world transforming innovations, where a slight change in policy can actually make a huge difference. When we understand this as an entrepreneur, when you're optimizing the funnel, like you can change the font and lose 20% or gain 20%, right? Like, we know, like small changes like that can make a massive difference in conversions. Okay. So if you add three years to a process, a number is just picked out of a hat. It could be like, just deadly to that entire sector, and the absence of feedback from the industry. Um, there is no correct mechanism, right. So this is this is not certainly not the only problem with the sectors but I think it's a very underreported underappreciated one, where actually the crypto community is, in many ways, kind of, like one of the best communities for criticizing this stuff, right? Because the difference with crypto, actually, before it, I would take Uber and Airbnb and PayPal, what have you, um, those folks Uber and Airbnb were going in fighting regulations at the state and local level. And as such, they had exit, because if you run to problems in Austin, you can monetize in Chicago, and if you run problems in LA, you can monetize in Atlanta or whatever, right? You have a bunch of different cities. And so you know, each of them, um, you know, that the funds from one place can pay the lawyers to fight somewhere else. And you're not just like knocked out, right? There's something federally regulated, once you start talking about, um, you know, biotech, or aviation, or markets, like the SEC, or whatever, you think about federal regulation. At that point, if you want to apply that same like exit strategy, you have to think internationally. Right? You have to think the US and Germany and Singapore and this and that. And in fact, that's what people do, they go and do stem cells in Germany or Singapore, because since the Bush administration, that's been hard to do, unfortunately, in the United States, right. So I'm reversing back up. There's much more I could see on regulation actually have a ad, there's a paper that I wrote six years ago that I haven't published on that, but I just kind of internally circulated that may republish it at Nakamoto, called regulation is information. Okay, and just to linger on that product quality is a digital signal on, I want to be absolutely clear that people want regulated marketplaces, they do, because they don't want to have to go and evaluate every product themselves. You don't want to go to Starbucks and have to take a dipstick, and go and test every single thing and just see if you're being arsenic poisoned or whatever. Instead, what people want is to kind of do one evaluation, de facto of a regulator or a regulatory regime of the US is decent, you know, product quality, I'm going to just opt into that cuz I know people aren't dying or whatever from that they kind of buy at that level, right? And you want to kind of do one diligence on regulator and then just kind of trust after that point. Right. That's, that's the optimal transaction thing. And what the regulator's delivering to you as a product is basically a some form of star ratings, and be some form of bands of bad actors. And those are different, right? star ratings are like on a one to five scale, this person tried, and they may have made a bad product or a good product, bands of bad actors. Those are zero star actors. The difference is a one star rating is someone who's well intentioned but didn't do it, right. A zero star rating is actual like fraudulent actor who may be highly intelligent, but trying to pull one over, right? What's really interesting and fascinating is there's a lens on the internet, which says the most valuable companies in the last 20 years have actually all been cloud rather than land regulators. What I mean by that Google is a regulator of the web. They rank, right and they filter out malware, right? Um, eBay is a regulator of their own marketplace. They have star ratings and they filter out bad actors. Pay Pal does the same thing. They have internal you know, kind of thing which they filter out, you know, the malware, right? Airbnb, Uber have star ratings, the App Store have star ratings, and they also filter out malware, and so on and so forth. If you start looking at any large assembly of humans, with the most valuable tech companies have done is they've put into place effectively international digital regulatory regimes that are actually more responsive in many ways and their than their national land based precedence. Right. Just to give one concrete example of that, if you think about Uber versus taxi medallions, you know, a taxi medallion is renewed, like maybe every six months, you come in for an inspection, you know, you don't get in a taxi medallion review, you don't have every ride, GPS tracked, you don't have every drivers payment information and reviews on you don't have like, you know, like granular ratings of like, the, the car, you know, was it clean and stuff like that you don't have any of that information. And and so you know, like, it's maybe better than nothing, you make sure that that driver is not a criminal and they're not gonna just hijack you. That's That's why people had yellow cabs in the first place. Well, these regulations arose for a reason that there were, you know, fraudulent actors, bad actors rose

Unknown Speaker  30:39  
and not to interrupt the medallion is also a capital commitment. Yes. Which is a strong disincentive against misbehavior. Correct. That's

Balaji Srinivasan  30:47  
right, though, of course, you know, that itself got abused in the sense of people started turning that into a business and loans and you have, like, like, kind of user usurious loans on these poor immigrant cab drivers or whatever, right? Um, but but net is, if you compare Uber and Lyft, as a regulatory regime, versus, you know, the taxi medallions, well, every ride is GPS tracked, and every driver and rider rates each other on and the driver knows the rider can pay, and the rider is forced to pay and, and so on and so forth. It's like, it's just better on many, many, many different dimensions, like in the event of like some, you know, if a driver would not take the long way around why you're looking at GPS, you can see that that's the shortest way. There's like 15 different ways in which this is a better regulatory regime than what came before. But here's the interesting bit. The the new model is actually a hybrid of the regulator and the marketplace, on and that regulatory marketplace hybrid competes against another one Ubers hybrid competes against lifts. Right. And and that's actually a new paradigm where you have, you know, it actually goes back to like libertarian theory, it's called polycentric. Law, if you've heard that term, policy entered law means multiple different legal regimes that exist at the same x comma y location at the same latitude and longitude. And, you know, this has been historically thought of as some lunatic libertarian thing, how could you have that, you know, if you have multiple laws all fight each other. But guess what we actually achieve that on your phone, where you can opt into different taxi regulatory regimes with a tap of a button, which is really interesting and cool, right. And so you've radically reduced exit cost, like, you know, I'm using Uber to lift the other day. And if one of them were really poor at at the trade offs that you make, and regulation, you just wouldn't use it. Right? If they let a lot of criminals on the platform, you would just like opt out of that and go to the other one. Or if they were too harsh on drivers, the price would be too high. And you would go back, right? There's 1000 trade offs that are made. And those are all just really expressed in kind of price signals and quality signals, and you just move back and forth. Alright, let me pause there, get your thoughts.

Unknown Speaker  32:47  
Yeah, I mean, I feel like the natural response to this is, I love this concept, for sure. However, if Uber is to succeed, and if you look at their strategy, they are probably intent on doing this, it involves basically monopolizing transportation, and creating the most powerful network and forcing out lift and so on, doesn't that kind of impair the ability of a genuine competitive landscape to actually merge?

Balaji Srinivasan  33:15  
Well, every individual company will try to do that. But I think I mean, you know, we've got all these micro mobility startups now we've got you know, scooters and we've got you know, the was McCall's the bikes, right. Um, and we, obviously, Uber and Lyft are still competitors have been around for a while, and then overseas, there's grab and add on. And, you know, like, I'm not, I'm not a complete, efficient markets guy by any means. But I'm also not a, you know, that alternative of having the state step in, I actually do think sometimes it's good to tolerate a period of anarchy. Um, let me give you a concrete example of that email spam, right, on email spam for a long time was was a really big problem in like late 90s, early 2000s. And there are lots of different, you know, proposals for it. In fact, there's like a checklist that was circulated, like your plan for spam will not work, because it proposes check vigilante approach this approach to that approach to rent. And eventually, because none of the, like state based models really worked. People developed Bayesian, you know, the Bayesian approach, right, where you take a bunch of signals on the emails and be able to sort them and email spam filtering is pretty good, right? You've managed to manage to get it done, right. And so So essentially, by tolerating a period of anarchy, you developed a technological solution that was actually superior. And that actually was worth creating, overall, you sort of have to wait for the people to punch it out, and you tolerate that period, and then the market solution comes in, right? Um, so that's not something that's like a blind efficient market thing that says it'll, it'll correct itself immediately, right? But it's also not something that says the state jumps in right away, it says, tolerate a period of anarchy, and maybe it'll get better. Cuz there's incentives for it to go ahead.

Unknown Speaker  35:01  
Um, I was just gonna say the one other hindrance I can think of would be a feedback loop with the winner gaining a runaway advantage in ride sharing, for instance, if Uber has the best model for self driving,

Balaji Srinivasan  35:15  
right, right. And you know, the thing is, um, it's very it's rare that I'm persuaded by a monopoly argument and the reason being, monopolies carry within them civilizational diabetes. Okay, let me explain what I mean by that. Um, have you heard the saying short sleeves, short sleeves in three generations? Okay. What it basically means is, there's, there's a person, they work themselves up, they become wealthy, they're their son or their daughter, you know, inherits, you know, some of that, but they still have some of the work ethic, and their grandson or granddaughter is just completely dissolute Trust Fund baby who's never known hardship and just spends it all down and you know, does cocaine or whatever, right? Okay? It's called shirtsleeves to shirtsleeves in three generations, okay. And you know, what I call it is civilizational diabetes, where too much abundance takes away the the drive, I don't think you can get to infinity unless you know what zero is. And if you've just been put on third base on people feel a lot of guilt for that, right. It's like, the achievement is taken away. Um, and, you know, this is actually something where I think, maybe in the future, maybe 20 or 30 years, trust fund kids who want to avoid that will go Satoshi. Like, they will just build up under their pseudonym, and try to prove themselves under a pseudonym. So they know that, you know, being a Hilton or dole or whatever, it wasn't, wasn't helping them, right. There's actually this this interesting movie about this called born rich by I think his name is Jamie Johnson, the heir of the Johnson and Johnson family, we kind of basically talks about his guilt, about having lots of money, right? Of course, those folks who have that guilt also have a big platform and on their unique problems are not the problems of most other people. And so they kind of push it a certain form of guilt over wealth creation, because they didn't create create the wealth. And that's actually not what they want to project or what we want to project to 99% of the population. Okay? So does that extend to monopolies? Well, that monopoly just generates tons and tons of money. And that money attracts parasites, folks who, in a weird, rational kind of way, they want to do maximum compensation for minimum effort. These are the late adopters, right? These are the, you know, like the actually the folks who are very different from the Silicon Valley culture who have become come into Silicon Valley in big numbers or last five years, right? Because they're not interested in technology, per se, necessarily, but they are interested in money. Right? Okay. So those folks come in, and that huge amount of wealth now starts getting eaten from within by termites, and so kind of takes care of itself.

Unknown Speaker  37:53  
So there's an institutional rot. That's, that's an almost inevitably

Balaji Srinivasan  37:56  
That's right. And now, you know, people can argue with this as to how long that monopoly or whatever is in the sun. And you know, how, like, founder driven is how ruthless it is. But it's, it's like, when you're actually running one of these companies. It's really, really, really hard to make a giant company keep innovating, because you have cash, right? But what people don't on the outside realize is, this is a machine, which is set up to like mine a particular kind of ore. Right? And you know, okay, you're just crushing it on like Platinum mining, okay. Oh, guess what, I don't know, cobalt mining, or diamond mining is shooting up. Or maybe it's forestry, which actually quite different. And now you have to reconfigure this machine and all the people in it to like go in mind is totally different thing, which is a totally, you know, that's not that easy to do, right. And it's a metaphor, but it gives us a sense of, it's not just Oh, yeah, just turn this thing around and just start chopping trees with it, it's actually very difficult to do. I'm an example of this is xox pivot in 2012. People take this totally for granted. But the pivot in 2012, from desktop to mobile, was a 90 degree bet the company make it happen. Extremely difficult thing because they had to, they had to rethink the entire UX of Facebook for mobile app. And they had actually gotten it wrong for two years, because they bet on html5 on rather than native apps, Android and iOS. So the mobile experience was terrible. On by 2012, it was clear that like iPhone and Android which transforming the world, they had made the wrong bet on mobile, they were behind, they had zero mobile revenue at the time of IPO. The stock tanked from like, you know, like 60% drop or whatever it was, everyone was yelling at suck, and Nietzschean built power. He figured out how to get the right teams to ship not just a good mobile app a great one, rethink the entire experience. Turn Facebook into a mobile first company, get ad units that worked on mobile, again, not a gimme at all. And then boom, like three years out, it's like 80% of the business. So like, you know, and and that's like, not easy to do. And so most companies without exceptional leadership, just their their time has monopolies is actually much were limited and people outside think

Unknown Speaker  40:01  
probably possible in that case, because he the leadership was so unilateral. Yes. So he could accompany institutional inertia?

Balaji Srinivasan  40:08  
Absolutely. That's right. And I think, you know, I'm one of the reasons for this is unless you're the founder, there's rare examples, right? Like Alon is not actually the founder of Tesla. Right, right. But But let's put, let's say, unless you are a founder, which I think encapsulates that like that to say you have the charisma or legitimacy of a founder, even if you're not the founder, okay. So unless you're a founder, it's extremely difficult to make a company do something that was not already doing, especially if it's an at scale operation, because everybody's reflexes are wired to do a certain thing. And you're telling them, hey, that's actually wrong. We're doing this instead. Like, it's a rewiring in so many different ways. And this is people isn't a novel observation. People call it the innovators dilemma or what have you. But But unless you've actually been at a senior level, as an executive and one of these, like giant companies, they're fragile, much more fragile than people realize from the outside.

Unknown Speaker  41:05  
It's as you're speaking, I was just about to say this has a little bit of a Clay Christensen esque type vibe to it. That's right. If you think about the crop of companies out there and the different industries for for innovators dilemma, what does what do crypto assets tilt that? What type of companies are in the crosshairs? Right?

Balaji Srinivasan  41:22  
That's a great question. So I have a saying, which is on crypto is going to disrupt tech, like Tech has disrupted everything else. And what I mean by that is on the move from desktop software to internet software in the early 2000s was first poo pooed. Like a bunch of people just thought it was nonsense. You know, there's there's term on like, you know, Java applets. That was what came before Ajax, right? People were trying to do on web applications in like the late 90s and early 2000s. And just the tech wasn't there yet, right? It's kind of like scaling blockchains are very, very similar conceptually. And it took the best company in, you know, on the internet, Google to do Gmail and Google Maps and only did in like, 2004 2005. And that should everybody's like, holy cow, you really can build these amazing, native like experiences on the web, that was like five years, four or five years after the.com crash require the absolute best company on the internet to do it, right. So it wasn't, wasn't an easy thing to do. And their culture, they had to nail a bunch of things. So there's a lot of a lot of wrong turns. One wrong turn was Yahoo's wrong turn, where they were a content company that became a content and media companies, they were headed by a Hollywood guy who we knew how to do that. And he didn't know internet stuff, you know, like, whatever. No offense, you know, people make different wrong decisions, right decisions. History, though, show that that was the wrong decision. And the right decision was via pure tech company, which is what Google was. And lots of folks get wrong in different ways. Google was pragmatically internet, they use the internet, but they didn't use the internet in a dumb way. They used it for the things internet was good for. They weren't too early, they weren't trying to do like, you know, web ban or things like that. They're doing search, right. Okay. Um, the reason I bring that up is many of the, the desktop companies in the 90s did not make the transition to the internet era, right? There's a few that did, right. Those are actually really great, great companies, Microsoft, Apple, Adobe into it, like some of them did, right? Like Borland or what have you. Like, I'm not sure Borland is around, I haven't heard them in a long time. But they were a big deal in like the early 90s, they had a compiler, they didn't make that transition. And I kind of think there's a lot of tech companies are just gonna get killed by crypto over the next 20 years, I think it was gonna take 1020 years, things are gonna get killed. And the reason is, um, there's so many different areas that crypto gives you tools to attack. Okay, let me name some of them. So social networks in two sided marketplaces, many, many different kinds of tools, because crypto gives you identity, it gives you balances, it gives you built in encryption, it gives you property rights, because you can hold things locally, you know, on it gives you the ability to sign contracts. It gives you a governance, right? All of those types of things are things which are people are complaining about in different ways on existing social networks. So I think we're gonna see a total cycling of social networks, maybe the big ones, Facebook and Twitter will exist, but there's going to be lots of different unbundled things and theses on them, right. In the future. I mentioned this might be a million hubs and a billion spokes of social networking, right. So you have all these different kinds of like smaller networks 1000 to 10,000 100,000 people, but that's like a city, right? That's like, like living in a city. You live in SF forever at 700,000 people we can have, like, lots of networks of that size, right? And then that's kind of a culture and it's all right, would you would you hang out and I'm like crypto Twitter is not 100,000 people. It's like 1000 pugilists in the arena. Right. And boxing boxing.

Unknown Speaker  44:46  
I think it might be 50,000 people

Balaji Srinivasan  44:48  
Sure. Well, well, I mean on Twitter. Yeah. Oh, well, so what I mean is like the voices, right, like the folks who you hear from or whatever, it's like Hye won or whatever. That's like 1000 people right? loss. Yeah, well, Less

Unknown Speaker  45:01  
XRP army has more than that. How many

Balaji Srinivasan  45:03  
people? Right? So, okay, so one aspect is social networks to set Mark lists and others FinTech. Right? So, one, one liner of use for since 2013, or whatever is, crypto is good for transactions that are very large, very small, very fast. Very automated, very international, or very transparent. Right. And you coin that. Yeah. It's a lot of stuffs good, right. Yeah, this is good. Right? Yeah. So that's it. That's you. I put that on. Like, there's some talk that I had in 2013 2014, where I've had that, but I should probably blog, all this stuff and just timestamp it or whatever. Right? Um,

Unknown Speaker  45:38  
yeah, stake your claim to that?

Balaji Srinivasan  45:39  
Yes. Okay, great. So So, you know, one of the things is, with Nakamoto, which we'll come to, I finally have the time to just write as like a, it's not something where Twitter is always just been a hobby of mine, you know, it's ever been like my most important thing, whatever, like content creations are my most important thing. So now what I need to do is I've got like, literally like 100, hundred and 50 blog posts in different like labors levels, and I need to, like knock them all out, right. But Alright, let me come to this one. So that like kind of one liner transactions are that are very large, very small, very fast, very international, very automated or very transparent. That gives a rubric for things that crypto is good at, that the existing system is not good at. And my kind of rule of thumb is, if your thing checks, two or three of those boxes, I think you can build a transformative application with crypto. Um, whereas if it doesn't, then you should just use Fiat. I'll give you a concrete example. Everybody talks about coffee, coffee, coffee buying point of sale with crypto, why? Because actually, it's one of the few things you actually buy every day. Right? There's not that many other things you buy every day consciously by without your credit card and buy, right. It's like People's Daily drug habit. You know, that's what America used to run tobacco alcohol now runs on caffeine, and you know, what are met? Okay. Um, so the making light of meth epidemic, just, you know, it's abundant Now, unfortunately. So the was the point, the point is that that daily purchase of coffee is uppermost in people's minds when they think about transactions. And it's actually true, Starbucks is a massive, you know, volume player in transactions, right? However, those transactions are neither very large or very small. It's not a million dollars, it's not a fraction of them. They're not International, because you and the barista are like right there, right? They don't need to be very automated. Because it's like you're handling the thing, you're not doing like thousand transactions to different people. It doesn't have to be very transparent. Like you're not to broadcast the fact that this transaction happened to other people. And it also doesn't need to be like incredibly fast. Like, it doesn't have to be like a, you know, an API call where it's a millisecond. And you're transmitting a small amount of money back for the for the API call, it can take like, you know, a minute for a minute, but you know, whatever this card is reading, do not remove card, whatever that is 15 seconds, right? Okay. So, so, point of sale actually does not satisfy any of these criteria. And that's why it's a bad application for it. In fact, I would analogize it to avoid. So in the early days of the internet, everybody thought about telephony, as a great application for the internet. Why? Because that was a form of information that people used all the time. But what's interesting is the internet analogy can also be used. ditchin is good for transmitting information that is very large, very small, very fast, very international, very automated, so gigantic files, tiny files, write files that get to be chopped up and sent and received by program files that are sent across borders, right? files that have to be like broadcast publicly, and so on, right? What the internet was not actually amazing for in the early days, was making a telephone call, which is a mezzanine amount of information as a very large and very small, you get the phone system work for it, right. And when telephony actually started work, it was for Skype, where it was international calls. Right? So it was actually significant. It was also international is very expensive at that time. So you actually picked an application, the current system couldn't do, right. You You went and exited, you know, and so on. Right? It took like 30 years from the protocol standard being invented to Skype, actually. Yeah, exactly. That's right. So So, um, so that I think like telephony, is an invoice is sort of like point of sale. I think point of sale will eventually work in crypto, but it's not like the number one if you were to list the top 10 applications internet, I don't know maybe avoid today would make the top 10. But it would definitely not be number one, right? It probably be like search social, like e commerce, you know, cloud, like deployments and so on, like machine learning.

Like, everything with the iPhone, all the location based stuff, ride sharing, you know, all the older stuff, right? And boy is important. I'm not even saying it's not, but it's definitely not undisputed number one, right. Okay. So the kinds of things that worked on the early internet, were like Amazon and Google, right? Where they were, they were bandwidth optimized. There was optimized for very low bandwidth, because early on was 56 K or 28 modems, right? So you just showed a webpage and you had, you're sending like small bites back and forth like one click right, okay, or like type in a word and hit enter and just get back one web page. So it was optimized for very low bandwidth. Like fat things in our side. And those are the applications that are working today in crypto, for example. hotaling is a great application for highly bandwidth constrained environment. You know why? Because you just, you're buying, and you're holding. That's it. You simple. Yeah, exactly. Your transaction volume, you don't need to scale your transaction volume is one transaction every five years. Right. Okay. You know, right. So that's a very good application for like an extremely bandwidth constrained environment. Right. And, you know, we're starting to see folks using using this for wire transfer equivalents in our things within larger transactions, yet large transactions, right. Like, one thing I mentioned a while back is, the applications are here, we just don't have metadata on block explorer labels. Right? Like, basically, if you knew the edge label of every transaction on the Bitcoin blockchain, you can be like, Oh, that is, um, you know, that's a wire. Oh, that's a purchase as an exchange? Oh, you know, that's, that's just a movement from one wallet to another, and so on and so forth. Right. Now, there's companies like chainalysis, that are actually like applying that kind of information. And obviously, there's a predator prey thing where you often don't want to disclose that right on and there's privacy issues, and so on and so forth. My main point, though, is billions of dollars being moved every day and some fraction that we know, is not just pure trading, we just don't know what it's being used for. Right. And I think that's an interesting perspective on it. Because one thing I think about crypto, that's interesting. I wrote an op ed on this two years ago, I think it still holds up, I'll probably republish it. Have you ever seen the Monty Python skit where he's like, you know, what are the Romans ever done for us? He's like, aka ducks, you know? And he's like, the roads, you know, and he's like, yeah, that will set for that. What else have they done? Right? Okay. So what are the applications of crypto? Okay, so there's digital gold, that's, that's there? It's like, Okay, what about our fine digital gold? Well, you know, you can now send international wire transfers to anybody else who also values crypto. And you can send it much faster than a bank. I mean, like, it's much faster than than a wire transfer, you can hit refresh, and within 60 seconds, you can see the thing on the blockchain, if you're sending you know, aetherium or you know, even Bitcoin, you can, it'll take 10 minutes or so to see the unconfirmed transaction,

you see that unconfirmed transactions. And that's amazing, because increases the metabolism of business. The difference between two to three days versus like a minute, is the difference between a postal mail and an email. And what hasn't happened yet is for business to catch up to that metabolism. But let me give you a concrete example of where that that's valuable. So with earned calm, we would take in, in aetherium, or Bitcoin. We've talked to somebody on the phone or chat, and they would send us that amount in crypto, right. And we just like, wait for them, you know, make small talk, refresh, boom, it's live, it's in our account, then we could hit enter and with confidence, knowing that we had the money send on, like, let's say we got in $10,000 worth of ether or whatever, right? So we could send $10,000 worth of emails $10 to 1000 people because our our supply chain and cleared, right, we weren't taking a we're essentially the same credit. If that makes any sense, right? They wouldn't default on it, right? And so that just increases the metabolism of business because they could pay for a large international transaction and have a clear same day and then see the results in their dashboard within a few minutes. Right. And that gives you a sense of kinds of applications that are enabled, but much, much faster settlement times, right. Which is very different than anything that existed without that. All right. third example is um, so what it was, is like incorporation there. Gosh, there's one that I thought it was also at scale on digital gold wire transfers, like capital

Unknown Speaker  53:41  
markets, crowdfunding, right. So I'm feeling you're gonna say that

Balaji Srinivasan  53:46  
Yeah, well, here's why. So 2015 if you go to Wikipedia is page of largest crowd funds. It was something like Star City or whatever. I was gonna say

Unknown Speaker  53:54  
Star Citizen. Yeah, Star Citizen. And that was funny because it like resembles an Ico Remember that? They didn't deliver anything. Right. A lot of disappointment.

Balaji Srinivasan  54:03  
That's all I just was. Right. But but but one thing I think is often interesting is to take a step back from it and forget about what was being funded. And just look at the mechanism of funding, right. Basically, a, you know, a large crowdfund online in 2015 was 10 or $15 million. That was like a big, big deal.

Unknown Speaker  54:23  
Star Citizen was was really momentously big. Yes. And then it was totally eclipsed by

Balaji Srinivasan  54:29  
ICS Exactly. That's right. And And the thing is, like people, if you graphed with the biggest one was it went up 400 X in two years from 10 or 15 million was I guess, the biggest one to like 4 billion for us right now. I I'm I recognize there's 50 things that can be said I don't want to diss anybody or what have you. Right like I actually think um, there's legit I think yes is trying and has done some legitimate things or have you I don't attack or whatever anybody okay, but um, What I will say is regardless of whether you you think about a particular project, right? Simply the remarkable achievement of transforming international crowdfunding is a very big history making deal. Because what happened was Kickstarter, you have to have like American credit cards, and an American mail order form. And you can only accept money from the US. And it takes time to settle. And the amounts are limited, basically, to whatever your credit card fraud protection limits are, and so on and so forth. Right. Whereas in crypto just like the door is ripped off the hinges, any amount pretty much from anywhere at any time, like brave raise, like $35 million in 30 seconds. Yeah. Right. That is awesome.

Unknown Speaker  55:43  
And it was an emergent property. Yeah, it wasn't what the theorem was built for.

Balaji Srinivasan  55:47  
Yeah. Well, that's right. That's right. And, and so you, essentially, that is something where that's 100 x improvement over the current system. And that's only one of the hundred X's we've delivered, right? Like kryptos delivered. Digital gold is like 1000 x improvement of the current system, international wire transfers, you go from two to three days down to a minute, that's again, a quantifiable hundred x, right? And I've got a table of all these hundred X's I'm going to put out there which is like crypto isn't a single 10 X, it's like a bunch of hundred x's, right? So you know, when you have a bunch of hundred x's, that is that is something which is a root and branch thing that just eats away at the underpinnings and the justification for many existing industries until one day just all start toppling, right? Because, um, you know, something that was interesting is in the early days of the internet, early days, a Hacker News, if you go back and reread this, lots of people would say things like, Oh, another like SAS, you know, application before the term SAS was common. Great. You just made a dumb, slow version of a desktop app. Good job, clap, clap, like that dunk tweet kind of kind of attitude. And what they didn't get was, well, everybody can collaborate on this app, like, you know, your state is the same, right? You can all log in and save your files in one place, you have to send them back and forth and attachments. And they were caught up in the things that were worse, that the performance was worse, that the UX was clunkier, you know, all that type of stuff. And they couldn't understand the things that were better. Right, one of the versions of this, and this is something that I'm I've got an essay coming out about this. A common example is people are like, ah, blockchains, they're just a slow database. Right. And that's true, it is true that they are a on like, depending on how you benchmark it 1000 or 10,000 x slower than the equivalent processing. But you know what, there are thousand x better on among the other dimension that already mentioned. They're massively multiclient databases. Okay, so if you if you run a website, you are not usually allowing any body to have full read and write access to every table in that database. Instead, you have a very limited set of API calls, and people cannot read the entire table. You cannot pull Twitter's database or what have you, right, you can't even get it for read access level on write access. The incredible thing about a blockchain is everybody has complete read access to everything. Number one, and anybody can write for a fee to nominate a new token, and the cryptography in the mining keeps all of that, um, you know, find the consensus to unify. That's incredible, you now have gone from one root user to basically in unlimited root users. So yeah, you went down in speed 1000 x, b, increase the number of simultaneous clients 1000 x. And when we were thinking about that, you know who the simultaneous clients in the Bitcoin blockchain are, in addition to every hodler, right, by Nance is a client and Coinbase is a client and cracking is a client, and so on and so forth. We're all collaborating by reading and writing to the same database. It is a massive innovation in shared state. This is actually something where, you know, you talk to an AWS guy, right? And you look at infrastructure diagrams, and they've got, you know, the load balancer, and they've got, you know, your data warehouse and what have you. But the piece that's actually missing is something that talks about shared state, between different economic actors, write different AWS accounts, you know, how do you share state between, you know, like Dropbox and stuff and stripe stuff, or whatever? Why would they ever want to do that? Well, Bitcoin shows that Coinbase, and finance and square, and everybody else who's got one of their applications are all actually reading and writing to the same shared database. There's something there, right. And actually, there's way more than that Facebook login shows that identity is something that people want to share database. Oh, and, you know, Twitter, but lots of people want to write API's with that. And you start seeing actually, the shared database problem is a very big deal. And the way that it's dealt with now is like data export and import, like export, you know, Jason, or export, you know, CSV. csv is actually as silly as it sounds. csv is like the closest thing in some ways to what blockchains provide, because you can export a table and then sometimes re import it into an app, right? Like you can export from Excel and re import it into Google that shared state between Microsoft and Google. But it's pretty crappy, right? It's like not it's not ideal.

Unknown Speaker  59:53  
I love CSV.

Balaji Srinivasan  59:55  
Sure, sure. Sure. Yeah. The main point on this, just going on All the way back up is what kinds of things can crypto grafter? So I start with the 10 x's and hundred X's right? So we've already hit gold, we've hit crowdfunding, we hit wires, we hit number of simultaneous clients, but there's more it's like speed of incorporation. You know, you go from days or whatever Delaware to seconds or minutes with a smart contract on although we still have a lot of work to do there foresight, of course, but but the fundamental idea of having a transparent set of laws on chain, let me give you an interesting, you know, quasi political motivation for this. Right now, we're in an era of rising nationalism and Tariffs and Trade wars. And that is inhibiting, you know, commerce between countries. And if you subscribe to the viewpoint that economic ties between countries are good, because they deter war. This is actually bad right? Now. On one way, if you subscribe,

Unknown Speaker  1:00:51  
I was gonna say,

Unknown Speaker  1:00:53  
a lot of counter examples.

Balaji Srinivasan  1:00:55  
But but there's an if then argument, which basically says, you know, like, you're doing more economic damage to yourself, if you're fighting somebody is better, you know, this is the libertarian piece kind of argument, like economic, you know, is better than war, okay. But an interesting thing is as much as there's trade barriers between Chinese and Americans and other folks and so on. Um, there are a lot of folks who are effectively on the same cap table when it comes to a crypto asset. Because that is something where the rule of law is on chain. And it is an international rule of law, like an American may not trust a Chinese court. And you know, like a Chinese person may not trust an American court, right. Especially like, you know, so recently this lady was stopped in Canada, the Huawei CFO, right, yeah. So like, you know, the Chinese have some reason to distrust the American system like that, that

Unknown Speaker  1:01:47  
70s may not trust the Japanese court.

Balaji Srinivasan  1:01:49  
Exactly. That's right. So there's there's increasing the Carlos ghosting thing, right? Yeah. So there's an increasing degree of potentially legitimate distrust of a foreign court system or so on. I think that's bad. And I think crypto is actually a solution not to get all like wishy washy on it, but I do believe in, you know, like, the brotherhood of man and woman, you know, like, like, in the sense of cross border trade is good. It is like, Silicon Valley has taken people from all over the world and put them together to build things like Google and Facebook and Dropbox and what have you. And that is actually good. You know, I think I'm a crypto can scale that concept. That's another thing crypto does 100 or thousand x, a cap table. You know, the cap table is arguably the most important data structure in Silicon Valley. That's a Balaji ism or whatever. Um, and there is kind of funny because it's not like you're writing to that or reading to that a lot. It's not like, you know, some fancy thing like a skip list or or tr IE a tree or whatever. On it's, it's it's an Excel table, basically, right? But it's taken people you know, you can take Persians, Brazilians, Eastern Europeans, Vietnamese, Indians, whatever, right? And of course, you know, Americans Canadians, and, you know, a few hundred people on a cap table can build Google That's amazing, right? you align all these people all these strangers, right, or not relate to each other by blood right on can get behind something and build it that benefits everybody. And crypto at its best, can increase the scale this capitalise by 1000 or 100,000 x from aligning a few hundred people to to hundreds of thousands of people or millions of people. And if that alignment is that those cap tables built, you know, all these amazing companies, what can we do with what comes after right?

Unknown Speaker  1:03:22  
So what is sovereign individuals end up building actual select countries and governments? So

Balaji Srinivasan  1:03:27  
let me give an asterisk on that. I'm sympathetic to the sovereign individual thesis in fact, I like the book quite a lot. But um, what I think increasingly about is the sovereign collective and the reason for that is humans are pack animals you know there are there are some folks who really want to go and live on a ranch you know or whatever by themselves fine you know more power to them knock yourself out that's great. But if I it took me a while to articulate this but I think the tech ethos again at its best I'm not talking about the Johnny come lately is Who are you know, the folks are joining tech companies for the money over the last you know, five or 10 years but like at its best, um it's about winning help with not living let live. And the thing that's interesting is win and help win is a tech ethos but I would argue it's neither progressive nor conservative or libertarian and let me explain why I'm the many progressives would would deny that it's that it's possible to win and help win. Like they would say, Ah, you getting rich means someone else becomes poor, right? That like not all but many, many, many conservatives would frankly not be that ambitious. Like you know, there's a there's there's a there's a zeal about, like, win and help win, which is not, oh, I'm happy in a small town and staying at home and what have you, right and I'm not trying to caricature but I'm saying like, not all, not all folks who cheer small town life and stability and what have you are zealous and ambitious enough to try to change the world that's good. It's kind of a different kind of attitude, and a libertarian of living. Let live is just a isolated pockets of individuals, right? So when and help him kind of his ambitious, it's positive some and it is collective. And it's kind of different from the other three ideologies right? Um, and you know, again nothing against that and you can argue him caricaturing it and so on. I mean no disrespect to anybody who who believes in any of those Creed's, but I think when and helping also outcompetes these other ideologies, because it generates more wealth to generates wealth for a group on those folks help each other. And it is. It's also it's the staging is important, right? You win so that you have resources, and then you help others win. So you don't you're not like on the hook to help others win before you have something to give them. Right. Like it's not like draining your lifeforce. Before you build yourself up. You have to you have to have control of yourself first, before you can really help others. I think that's an important concept. Um, you know, whatever. Jordan Peterson sinks, clean your room. Right. Okay. The Okay, recursing backup. So how do I get on with meltdown? It was a,

Unknown Speaker  1:06:03  
I was putting sovereign and sovereign sovereignty.

Balaji Srinivasan  1:06:04  
That's right. That's right. So the sovereign individual is great. However, I feel that a sovereign collective is going to be a lot more powerful. For example, about 20,000, Amazon, you know, when it's doing issue to about 20,000 engineers worth was enough to bring new york state to the bargaining table. That's actually remarkable, right? And you're actually it's like a 27 million person state. Why did they care about 20,000 people? Well, those folks were probably disproportionate revenue stream have a come there, and a bunch of other states went in bid. So this is something that's very counterintuitive for people, something less than point 1% of the population, if it's liquid, can actually dramatically change law. And that, I think, is one of the biggest things that's going to start happening in the 2020s, not digital nomad, but digital nomadic tribes, right, groups who we grew up online, right, you find your community, you start collectively bargain with states, right? Or cities or towns or what have you. Um, and there's various drivers of this first premise is law is a function of latitude and longitude. That is to say your x, y location determines a local state, and then federal overlays. And so if you shift your x comma y, the lower the cost of changing your x, y location, the lower the cost to change the law under which you live. So election is one method of doing this migration, therefore is another, you can change the law under which you live the election or migration,

Unknown Speaker  1:07:32  
which is why we've seen so much migration because it got cheaper. So because it got cheaper opportunity funding new jurisdiction, that's

Balaji Srinivasan  1:07:38  
right. And you can you can plot a graph like Moore's Law of like the cost of relocation. Now, one of the amazing things Tech has been doing, mobile is making this more mobile, almost everybody in tech is working on like mobile, cloud, VR, and so on, and different parts of this. They're each cutting another obligate tie to the land. Okay, let me explain. So you can now if you want to pick up your phone, Uber to the airport, had some buttons, be on a plane, had some more buttons, have a hotel, had some more buttons, get food on the other end, and then you can even like tweet or whatever on your phone, like, like, basically, you can be in another country in a day if you want it to, with very little, you know, upfront planning, right? We're becoming more mobile again, okay, after a long time, of humanity being suicidal. And one of the things about that is there's kind of two modes of humanity. You may you may know this, but there's like the hunter gatherer mode, and there's like the farmer mode, and we were hunter gatherers for most of evolutionary history. And we were farmers for last whatever thousand years depending on how you did it. Now I think we're coming back for at least some significant fraction Manny to a hunter gatherer mode, right? Okay, so mobile is lost function legend, longitude, mobile is making this more mobile. VR makes location irrelevant. And this is a few of us. Oculus quest is actually pretty good. I haven't we should get it. Yeah, I mean, like, you know, I I am not like a Facebook. Um, I, I am anti anti Facebook. I'm not pro Facebook, but I maintain a Facebook in the sense of I think a lot of criticisms of Facebook are unfair criticisms, um, though, I also would definitely fun things to disrupt them

Unknown Speaker  1:09:12  
if that makes sense. Right? Well, yeah. I'm a staunch not user Facebook fair, right. Twitter is my sole poison just

Balaji Srinivasan  1:09:18  
fair. So but basically, I think, you know, like, I think Oculus quest is a good product and I think it's like moved move the future forward. So you know, if you're anti Facebook, fine, use HoloLens or something like that. I think Oculus quest is worth trying out. Um, the the thing about VR is I think it's gonna you know, virtual reality and virtual currency this decade, I think are both gonna ramp right. I just goes to kind of a sleeper hit over the holidays, I tweeted about that. It was I think it was it was like top 10 in the app store for like a physical product and that's pretty, pretty good. Um, and, uh, what VR lets you do is opt out of your x, y, and opt in to something else. One of the things I think people are gonna do for example, is like opt in to the 1950s. Right? Like, everybody's well dressed, or whatever now, you know, hopefully you opt into like a tolerant version of the 1950s. So it's gonna say with like the gender. Yay. That's right. That's right. But like, what people can do is now remix the good aspects of the modern time period, but the things that they liked about the 1950s, or the 1960s, or, or the 1900s, or LARPing, back to some Dungeons and Dragons thing, right? Like they can opt into other time periods and have both AI and other people there. And then they could just skip between them, like you'd skip between like a web browser and just have a totally different experience. Now, we know this is popular, because World of Warcraft, and things like that fortnight are hugely popular, right? Um, so that's another way in which the XY location that you live, that becomes less less important. Um, and, you know, third dimension is everything going to the cloud, right? Like, you know, for example, I can move much more easily because my, my books are all in my Kindle, right? I know, I'm renting them from Amazon, but also a lot of PDF versions. And, and then, heavy bookshelf. I don't need to move all the time. I've got 1000 books on my on my phone. Right on. And that's great. That's, you know, Mark small. And, you know, one of the things I think about is actually everything that you need to pack. I do think over time, they'll be summonable from your phone. One of the things that hasn't happened yet, which I think you might start with men's suits, is clothes. Right? Right,

Unknown Speaker  1:11:22  
was already happening.

Balaji Srinivasan  1:11:24  
It's happening, right. But basically, like Rent the Runway for men where you landed at another hotel, and they just have a suit to your size there. You don't have to pack

Unknown Speaker  1:11:32  
we were just lamenting that there aren't ready to go podcast studios and city. There you go.

Balaji Srinivasan  1:11:36  
That's right. That's right. So there should be one, I think everything like this, all the on demand stuff that Uber for x stuff will eventually happen. It just it's like, you know, you had to have Twitter and Facebook and Google for your Twitter for x and Facebook for y and Google for z. Right? Um, okay, so this is that's part of recursing. further back, this is part of why I think the sovereign collective is likely to win, because I think that getting 20,000 people and getting them to move somewhere is becoming cheaper and cheaper and cheaper, thanks to all these apps on their dependence on the current x, y is less. And when your dependence is less, your leverage is more.

Unknown Speaker  1:12:18  
So one question I had is like, so I'm like a urbit fan, like I fully endorse and believe in this notion of like, the patchwork and the fact that social media is the first step there because it's a deterritorialized long. However, if you look at the laws that we are bound by, they actually seem like kind of a step backwards. In terms of like, to me, Twitter, for instance, seems like a digital fiefdom, like, kind of like, I feel like a surf when I'm on Twitter, not like a surface, right? Like the, you know, the very Soviet acrf in that, like, I'm very much disempowered. I'm the, the, you know, jack Dorsey ostensibly runs a thing, but really, it's just some, you know, basically bureaucrats which impose very unclear law, which is like, often changing Sure, very arbitrary. And so it's almost worse in some respects, like the the terms of services, the law, but the law is very unclear. And there's obviously no accountability. So then, of course, you know, there's like the exit potential. But exiting something like Twitter is extremely costly. You can't bring your social graph with you. So you can't really bring the reputation you've accrued with you. You can't bring your followers with you. So is that is this like a sufficient hindrance to impair this idea of like these digital polities these like Digital Commons?

Balaji Srinivasan  1:13:41  
Great question. So let's say a few things one is on. I am more sympathetic to jack nowadays, than effort for a few reasons. But one, here's one potential metaphor. He has, like 300 million people on Twitter. And he's basically like the president of 20 countries embroiled in civil wars.

Unknown Speaker  1:14:02  
Oh, yeah, I know, I'm a jack Dorsey fan. Don't get me wrong.

Balaji Srinivasan  1:14:04  
So so like, it's one of those things where, um, you know, like Lincoln during the Civil War, he like, suspended habeas corpus and did all kinds of crazy stuff, right? jack jack? Pretty much can't do any of that. Right? And or, like he can, he can censor it, like one group is, you know, is basically mad at him for not censoring enough and the other is mad at him for censoring for much. Right? censored? Yeah. And so he really can't win on that. And that's why I think blue sky is very interesting, which is their attempt to decentralized Twitter. I think that's the right approach. And what's interesting about it is you can build a large coalition around it on because there, you know, there's weather. So progressives are generally against, you know, inequality and concentration of wealth and corporate power. And libertarians are often against centralization, and concentration of state power on or in some cases, corporate power as well. And when you put those together, it's actually a concern. centralization, where there is like the, you know, the meme of the handshake? Yeah, like there's really something there. And, you know, I've got some investments, in fact that I'm announcing that are starting to be collaborations between the decentralized web community and the crypto community, which really should happen. And there's some touch points, but that really should be like, you know, like two hands together, because, um, one group is coming at it from, you know, being against corporate power, and the other group is coming into it from being in state power. But really what happens is a large enough private company becomes quasi public. So there's a continuum between private and public power, I think, because you have 300 million people, right, like, that's gigantic. So to answer your question, I'm actually fairly positive on this in the medium term. Because a they're doing things like decentralizing Twitter, just one of them is enough, or giving lip service to at least Yeah, I mean, they're seriously working on it. Like, I can't say everything on it, but they're actually trying to recruit like a serious person for it and what have you. Um, B is I don't know if you read Zach's letter, like Zach actually came out pretty hard for free speech a few months ago, he did not need to that that was not the short term profit maximizing thing. He definitely took a lot of hits for it. Yeah. But I think it was the right thing to do. And he's been talking about decentralization. I mean, you know, yeah, like Libra, wherever. Again, I actually think anything any effort in the space is good, because it attracts attention. It gets energy legitimated or what have you. Um, and then, you know, other other platforms like telegram doing ton, and, you know, the x WhatsApp guys are funding signal, which is how it has mobile coin. Reddit has a crypto thing. And so all the major social networks are actually have some crypto project. I'm not sure all of them are publicly announced. But they're all kind of thinking about it. And a lot of these folks can get aligned behind the values of crypto or the values of tech. Do you see my article like Bitcoin is a flag? If I saw you give the talk?

Unknown Speaker  1:16:49  
Yeah. MSF?

Balaji Srinivasan  1:16:51  
Yeah. Great. Yeah. So. So that's actually something which I think folks can get behind that, right? Because it is, it fits kind of how we'd like to think of it is a fair fight, you know, like rule of law, like, we don't want to, you know, push it either way, right. We want to actually, you know, strive for neutrality and strive for basically a fair fight. Right, and let the idea, you know, marketplace of ideas when so I think there's, I mean, there's a narrative that tech CEOs, you know, are evil censors, and so on. But they, like a lot of them actually want to do the right thing. And I think you're gonna see that decentralization of Twitter is just one piece of that.

Unknown Speaker  1:17:26  
I see jack Dorsey is a tragic figure, actually, because he, as you say, he has such a difficult job. And Twitter has so much leverage to anybody that controls it, that every government on earth is desperately trying to control. Yep, the dialogue through Twitter right now. Either, you know, overly pressuring him, or even insulting him, like, you know, I'm sure that some of the staff work for various, you know, state agencies, right. So, like, I think these guys, the, the, you know, the zox, and the jack Dorsey's, they probably don't want that responsibility anymore. That's a big part of to be the great sensor.

Balaji Srinivasan  1:18:02  
So, so this, I mean, vitalik had a good post on this controllers liability, right, which is a great like, you know, one liner, like, essentially, if you have control, you're a target. So decentralization actually starts to have advantages over this right. Um, so So I actually do think, you know, the arc of history is long, but it bends towards decentralization. I do think that that there's the biggest thing about it is, crypto gives an offsetting financial incentive that compensates for the increased complexity of decentralization. that's crucial, because otherwise, it's just like a whole mess. And I think what's going to happen is, here's a, I thought, a good analogy between the set of all that, but we're maybe delving into why you use Bitcoin, in part because you want your money to be yours, that a bank should not be able to D platform you from your money, right? Well, if you accumulated your you know, your dollars in your bank account, you also accumulated your followers or what have you on Twitter? And that's also an economic asset, right? Yeah, that's economically valuable. Many people run their businesses off this episode for their Instagram or Twitter or whatever. And you should not be able to be d platformed. From that without Do you know, like the

Unknown Speaker  1:19:12  
supply talk about the US being arbitrary, exactly. People are being deprived of they mingle their labor with a handle. That's property. That's exactly right. And

Balaji Srinivasan  1:19:21  
so I think it's a slight shift, I think an important rhetorical shift from talking about censorship, to saying private keys are the new private property. This is my property, and prop much bigger than just censorship. It's much bigger than such a conversation. It's eminent domain. It's an eminent domain. Exactly. Right. So once it's reframed like that, because it's not purely a political thing. It's it's something that it's a political why would you want to trust me, whether you trust the government or not? Why would you want to necessarily trust a gigantic corporation with just complete discretion over whether they deprive you of your property? That's not right. You know,

Unknown Speaker  1:19:56  
they're not economically aligned with you. Not only that, but the government like you look The American frontier, the government lost the battle to dry and deprive settlers of their property, people settled illegally across the frontier. And then they successfully made the case for why they should retain the rights to that, sure. They overruled the government even.

Balaji Srinivasan  1:20:15  
So, that's a complicated one, because you can say, Oh, they took it from the Native Americans. And so so you can go back and forth on that stuff. Right. But um, but I understand the substance of the point, which is basically that I'm thinking about this in terms of property rights, I think is the right approach. Because you can start bringing a bunch of principles in there. And what's good about Bitcoin is it is pushing the decentralization people are bringing their private keys locally, gradually, it's happening, like Casa and things like that, right? So the technology are improving, have you seen like zengo orielle, saying, it's really pretty awesome, which is like a Gen three, or Gen four wallet that uses like, your face ID is like another input signal and what have you, right? Um, so very, very smart team out of Israel. So folks are really starting to innovate on local custody. Um, and, you know, you saw the whole thing with Peter Schiff the other day, like, I know, people were dunking on him, but I actually agree that

Unknown Speaker  1:21:11  
very unfortunate situation,

Balaji Srinivasan  1:21:13  
it's an unfortunate situation this right like

Unknown Speaker  1:21:15  
blockchain, not info wallet. Sounds like it was totally misconfigured.

Balaji Srinivasan  1:21:18  
Or what exactly if it logged him out? And you know, like, the thing about it is it should be idiot proof. You shouldn't you shouldn't you know, I i'm not saying Schiff is an idiot, but I'm saying it should not be something you have to think about or worry about. It sounds very user hostile. I mean, I've never used it, but, you know, holding information as value by its very nature as user hostile. That's problem. That's exactly right. And I think, you know, I'll always, you know, hold a soft spot for shift because I think he was like, an early exponent of some of the issues with the financial system and so on. And I know, he's like, controls Bitcoin or whatever. But it's fine. Like, like, I have this concept of minimum necessary alignment, which is, if somebody is aligned with me on like, core principles, right. I don't care about all the other differences, like they're generally pushing in, like a positive some direction, right. And I think that that we can do with more of that in society.

Unknown Speaker  1:22:07  
He's, he's with bitcoiners on like, 95% of x. Ray Dalio, by the way. So yeah,

Balaji Srinivasan  1:22:13  
that's right. Exactly. Totally. Tea. I mean, that's the thing is, you know, the circular firing squad is just really dumb. And it's, it's something where, what I realized is, I tweeted this other day, lots of ideologies that seemed to have like, deep philosophical differences, somehow all manifest in the same way on Twitter, and I call it Twitter ism. Right? Like somehow they all converge. You know how, like an economics, they have this concept like the solo convergence theorem. I don't even sure if it's real, but they're like all economies converge to a model. I'm not sure that's real in economics, but I know it's real on Twitter. Yeah, all weather, weather, all economies converts the same economy, all ideologies converge the same ideology of, you know, the sick, burn, the dunk, right, the exclamation parts, like the, you know, let me get this straight, you know, that type of stuff, right? Because Twitter turns us into monsters. And what's funny is, even if you actively try to not do this, but 1% of the time, you are like, that will be the tweet that seen by, like, 80% of people, right? For example, just like, just like one example. You know, I I actually, I think I try not to be that sarcastic or whatever on my feed. But their day, I tweeted something like, um, because I saw the NYT endorsement coming up, and it's like, just roll my eyes, I was like, can't wait for the billion dollar company owned by millionaires, to endorse the millionaire who will then condemn millionaires, billionaires and corporations, right? That got like, you know, millions of impressions, right?

Unknown Speaker  1:23:45  
It's owned by a billionaire. Right, Carlos Slim.

Balaji Srinivasan  1:23:47  
I'm not sure how much of a stake he owns anymore. Okay, I kind of hedge it with millionaires, because for sure, it's millionaires. Right? Um,

Unknown Speaker  1:23:55  
and, like,

Balaji Srinivasan  1:23:56  
something like that is actually I think, relatively uncharacteristic of what I what I put out there, right, like, you know, cuz I usually use Twitter for is developing in the open, you have people like use GitHub, and they put out source code, I have little snippets of ideas that are all you'll see them all in books, or whatever, you know, later if I get them all out there. But these snippets, and I kind of get feedback on it. That's what I like Twitter for, um, but, but you'll see a fisheye lens of somebody, because their most viral tweet is often like the one that's most definitive, or least qualified or the most sarcastic or most atypical. And what happens is, people even if they don't realize it, subconsciously respond to incentives, right? And when you have a score, like, you know, within a company, right, what gets measured is what gets optimized. And, you know, here's here's actually something which just as a paradigm shifting thought experiment, imagine you had, you know, two teams playing a basketball game, but the team score was never shown. Instead, every player just looked up and saw their own points. Okay. Or their own rebounds or whatever, right? So what happened? You just basically get showboating and you know, so on and so forth. Right? Like, it's just just just human nature, you don't even have to, like do some mental math even out of the score. Maybe Maybe that even wasn't shown right. Um, and so, you know, if everybody has a personal dashboard on Twitter, they're not really propounding an ideology, if they think they are, they're just maximizing their personal likes and followers or whatever, right? Instead, if you had some team dashboard, which actually showed some numerical figure, you know, in a company, that's revenue, right, um, or users or something like that, you know, people aren't getting a box score of their daily stats every single day. I mean, salespeople are, and that's why they're actually there. You know, you have to kind of corral them, they're great, but you know, they're coin operated, right? It's a typical phrase, they're different than engineers who are more long term. So you could imagine completely different user interfaces that actually have positive some ways to develop an ideology, and they didn't reduce them all to tourism.

Unknown Speaker  1:26:00  
Alright, so I guess we're pretty short on time now, but obviously, want to hear the the two minute version of your vision for Nakamoto. So um, so basically

Balaji Srinivasan  1:26:10  
Nakamoto calm when a you know, a couple of weeks ago, on I have gotten like, almost 100 contributions, which I'm just sorting through the pile, debit some really awesome stuff there. Most major people in crypto are in on. And what's interesting is the the feedback that I got the signal, dm, telegram email was overwhelmingly positive. And and basically, there were so many folks who were like, wow, we really need this as a community is a place to talk. Like where it's not all one upsmanship and virtue signaling and your coin Sox, blah, blah, blah, that type of stuff. And, you know, what, one thing that you know, I've got a post coming out where I talked about this, I mean, just think about login mechanisms for community health and whatnot you want to do in a deliberate way. But Satoshi Nakamoto never told anyone,

Unknown Speaker  1:27:05  
aside from Dan Larimer,

Balaji Srinivasan  1:27:06  
even that was something where, if you look at it in context, he's basically explaining like micro payments, and he gives a citation. And it was actually like, if his most trollish comment over like, almost like 1000 posts over years was I don't have time to finish explaining to you but he does give a link. Okay, that says Max is median is very, very, right. Yeah. And, and the thing about it is if you go and read Satoshi stuff, he was pragmatic. I say he because he called himself a him in one, you know, his, his profiles. Yeah, mine. He was pragmatic. He was cool. He was technological. He was generally positive, while you know, reserved, a patient as well. Patient Exactly. He talked to Zuko about zero knowledge. He talked about bit DNS and going in, you know, like having multiple chains because you couldn't put all the load on one chain. He made trade offs, like an engineer. Now, I'm one of the things that, you know, I think about I actually, I tweeted this, and I thought better of it afterwards, actually. Which was, Satoshi should not actually be analogized, to a religious leader, like, like Jesus or Muhammad, that's actually the wrong analogy. And I thought about this, and actually, a much better analogy is Satoshi as being somebody like Newton, or Einstein, or Maxwell, like a scientist, or an engineer, like, you know, like Larry Page, or, you know, the, like Ford or Edison, somebody like that, right? Like a scientist and engineer, because kind of both right, and a scientist or an engineer, is definitely someone you respect. You know, you can name Tesla or something, you know, after them, um, but somebody who can be wrong as well, you don't like go to their writings like religious scripture, you go to their writings to write a biography of the person to give them the respect, you know, that they deserve. But like, you know, Newton probably would have been tickled that Einstein corrected his theory of gravitation with, you know, relativistic effects. Like, that's awesome. High five, thank you for taking it one step further, right. That's how science progresses. It's not like this close minded sort of religious thing. And so that's why we named it Nakamoto, after Satoshi, the scientist and engineer, because it's kind of like an academic journal. You know, it's like, like, you know, in my ambition, like the nature of crypto or something like that sort of right, the nature slash the Atlantic long form, technical on and income and pragmatic. And I think that's the spirit that we're trying to get with this.

Unknown Speaker  1:29:30  
You know, I don't know if I would call them religious. I think that's, that's a great characterization of Satoshi. Yeah. If there were to be a religious comparison, I would compare him to a tragic mythical figure as well. Interesting, a tantalus or Prometheus, because he, you know, gave fire He not only gave fire but he was then was punished for it essentially, in that he couldn't take credit for his invention. without suffering dire personal consequences.

Unknown Speaker  1:29:57  
Yeah,

Balaji Srinivasan  1:29:58  
but but but he seems to me like I might thesis on who Satoshi is on or was, um, but, you know, there's there's some folks who do things just for the satisfied like anonymous donors like anonymous philanthropic donors, right? There's some folks who do something just for the satisfaction of it, right? And what's awesome about Satoshi is he never moved the coins. I mean, look, I have nothing against people making a profit, more power to them and so on. But that's truly like, you know, just this incredible love the restraints

Unknown Speaker  1:30:28  
and restraints are insane.

Balaji Srinivasan  1:30:31  
The appsec You know, he, you know, he, like, there's so many things you sit on him pseudonymity as a shield, not a sword. Right? He never put on a mask to go and attack. He used it for defense, like every single trade off there, you know, he made an ethical way. Right? Um, you know, it was it was a technology was a fundamental breakthrough in computer science. Um, and it's something where that's a spirit that I think is actually what drew me in part two to Bitcoin and cryptocurrency, that spirit that I think is legitimate part of the space. And what many of these folks got into the space for I mean, like, I don't know if you saw the thing where Satoshi thing Zuko? Yeah, in 2010, Zuko, like, who's here before a lot of other people or a lot of other people Zuko was paying attention to it wrote a blog post on it. That was actually a material contribution to Bitcoin in the very earliest days first

Unknown Speaker  1:31:19  
blog post about maybe

Balaji Srinivasan  1:31:20  
when the first was right. And, and, you know, he was talking to him about zero knowledge. And he actually carried that through to z cash. Right. So I think that that's the legitimate intellectual lineage of this right. And, and that's what I want to talk about. So we need to knock him out.

Unknown Speaker  1:31:39  
Well, that's an awesome place to live it. I can't tell you how thankful we are that you took the time to speak today. This is a fun episode. Where can people learn more about Nakamoto? And where can they follow you?

Balaji Srinivasan  1:31:48  
Well, nakamoto.com and twitter.com, forward slash Nakamoto. And I'm Balaji yesterday conference about Yes. And thanks, guys.

Transcribed by https://otter.ai
