Unknown Speaker  0:12  
So let's kick off for payments panel. I'm really excited to welcome Balaji Srinivasan, CEO of 21, Elizabeth Stark, CEO of lightning labs. And Ryan, Charles, CEO of yours. I want to dive right in with a, maybe a little bit of a, you know, controversial question. Why use cryptocurrency at all for payments? We've seen it used for speculation, obviously, perhaps for store value. But what's your case as to why would we use cryptocurrency versus Venmo, or PayPal solution, your turn just very briefly, whoever Sure,

Unknown Speaker  0:49  
well. So like, a few years ago, I had this tweet, which said that, like, digital currency is good for transactions that are very large, very small, very fast, very international, and are very automated. I think most of those hold up other than very small, basically, because of the whole fee thing, or the last couple of years, I think very small will come back, there will be chains. And there'll be ways that we can do that. I think there's a few really critical aspects of that. And there's maybe a six, which is, you know, very for people who are very unbanked or, and that applies not just to folks in the developing world where it's really talked about, right now, there's a major hole on the internet where you can go and put your credit card into website, but most people don't put their bank account and website to get paid. The ability to spin up a new address and get paid very rapidly without actually saying grubbing can is something that's a major mentioned digital currency. I think that's one of the biggest advantages of it from a payment standpoint.

Unknown Speaker  1:40  
Well, so Balaji, actually, I think, has talked about this quite a bit. But in the early days of the internet, the kind of Craters of a lot of the protocols envisioned that there would be this payment layer in this value layer. And a lot of these problems just hadn't been solved yet. There are these concepts of charmian ecash. But you had to trust a certain type of intermediary. But why is it that we can send say, you know, an animated GIF or easily, you know, send somebody an mp3, but you can't just send value to somebody, regardless of what application you're using? interoperable protocol, right. So if I log on to Venmo, then Venmo can block my transactions. You know, I actually recently went over the Venmo limit, it was really annoying, I had to wait a week to be able to send money again. So with cryptocurrencies, you take all these problems away, you can have a native currency and a native value layer for the internet. And I think a lot of people like to talk about buying coffee in the Bitcoin world, it's like this meme, right? Hard to buy coffee right now. But I do believe that what these technologies and currencies will do is it'll enable use cases that weren't previously possible, because you just couldn't send you know, one set a million times per second, for example, for a machine API call or to access a mesh network.

Unknown Speaker  2:49  
So we have two primary reasons for for using cryptocurrency. Number one is, and I'll just sort of come back at what what Balaji said, you can do small value payments if you have an L two. So one of the things that we've done is to build similar to the lightning network, ours isn't quite as advanced, at least at a protocol level, but it has sort of web technologies level, ours is very, very good. It's very usable for our users, we're able to lower fees, very, very, very low. Although if you've watched my other talk, the fees on Bitcoin have gotten so high, that actually decided to switch to Litecoin, after all, because that makes the fees even lower. So number one is with an LTE, you can have quite low fees. Number two is regulatory. So from our point of view as a business, we would rather not be a custodian of our users funds. That's not what we're doing. We're not a bank, we're not a payment processor. If we can not be in the business of being a custodian, we would prefer that. So by using cryptocurrency, our users possess their own private keys and their hdlc free images and reputation free images. So they have their money, we can access their funds, only they can when they send money to another user, we never have access to it, only the other user has access to it. So this for legal reasons, I'm sort of skipping over why that's true. But being a custodian versus not being a custodian makes a big difference. Legally, we're just a software company. So those are the two reasons, low fees. If you're willing to go through all the pain of doing it right now, when lightning rolls out, I think it'll be easier. And then regulatory.

Unknown Speaker  4:25  
Yeah, those answers make a lot of sense to me. And the reason why I wanted to ask the question was to have it be a little bit of a leading question, because Bitcoin transaction fees really have shot up, right? We've seen transaction fees average $1 dollar and a half, maybe even to the arrows at peak times. And so I wanted to segue into the activation of segwit. And because that has been, you know, the subject of this scaling war, I bet a lot of people in the audience, maybe feel some exhaustion because of that. So I feel curious to hear maybe from each of you. activation of segwayed be either on Bitcoin or Litecoin? Does that change anything for you at all? Does it make things easier? does it allow you to roll out things that you had been planning? Just give us your your thoughts.

Unknown Speaker  5:11  
I mean, it's good to see that it's activated.

Unknown Speaker  5:14  
I think that even with seg wit, though, right now, there's, there's a lot of other options for doing payments if you want to do payments. And it's not obvious that you want to, like I'm still extremely bullish on Bitcoin as an investment. I think that as an investment and as, like an innovation, it's still a huge thing, as a technology platform to build on top of it, it may or may not be the best thing to build on top of. And I think that, you know, we now have the the network effect, you know, has been broken in the sense that you do have, you know, aetherium coming up, you have all these other coins going up, there's this explosion of coins across the space. And it may be the case that each of those does something a little bit better than Bitcoin, for example, z cash with, you know, like privacy or Ethereum with programmability. And there may be something else that is just optimized for really small payments, right? So I'd say that really, it's kind of it's good, that segment is out there, but I don't consider it like the be all and end all we now have a lot of things to look at.

Unknown Speaker  6:15  
So being involved in the Bitcoin community is kind of like living in a dystopian cyberpunk novel. That's what we feel like my life has been like for the past year do for those that have involved in people love to fight. And there's kind of this law that any Bitcoin discussion will ultimately evolve into a block size debate, right. For those that are familiar with Godwin's law, exactly. So from our standpoint, lightning labs, we're building an implementation of the lightning network called lightning network daemon L and D for short. And it was a big deal for us, because surgery to witness was a core part of our implementation in our technology, it was possible to build out lightning without In fact, the theory recently forked our code to do just that. But it was far less optimal. And it's like when you're building a protocol, you want to build the best technology, you can not build something that's inferior, and that's because seg wit brought with called a malleability fix to Bitcoin. So there was a lot of uncertainty, we didn't know what was going to activate it all this year, you know, was it going to what was going to happen on August 1 with the potential chain split of bit 148 uasf, or one type of uasf. But once BIP 91, which is one of the activation methods did finally lock in, we actually did get some champagne with our team Brian a little over here in the audience. So that was a big celebration point for us, because we'd really worked hard to build out our technology, which uses seg wit. So now I believe later in August, we don't have the exact date, but something like in the 20s it'll finally activate on the main Bitcoin chain. Also Litecoin had seg wit earlier. And that was a big deal for them, they're actually doing some good work around what's called mass and schnoor signatures. So they're kind of moving ahead with changes that you know, Bitcoin can make for so for you guys building a light coin that could be advantageous. So, from our standpoint, it's a big deal. This means that we can finally get lightning out to the world in the wild and make it the best protocol it can be.

Unknown Speaker  8:06  
So from our point of view, we made a decision early last year when we started working on our payment channel technology, not to rely on seg wit, seg wit existed as an idea I think it might have been implemented at that time and trying to remember, but it certainly wasn't live. And so we decided we would rather not be dependent on you know, some technology that may or may not ever happen. So we designed all of our payment channel technology in a way that we don't need segwit so we were able to make our you know, technology work on Bitcoin, we announced that we had a sort of routed micro payment as a several months ago on Bitcoin. That was sort of before we had to make our switch to Litecoin and launch our alpha product. So seg wit doesn't make a huge difference to us just because we went out of our way to not be dependent on seg wit. Also sort of take a bit of a contrarian point just because, you know, we we are I'll say that we are I guess you could say ambivalent towards segway. segway, it is. Okay. But we think that there's a really big problem with Bitcoin right now, which is, well, fees are really high, and seg wit at best will not change that. I mean, I don't see any hope that segment is actually going to lower fees on Bitcoin. I think realistically, what's going to happen is bitcoins going to keep growing modestly. And the fees are probably going to say approximately the same or increase now we've seen a bit of a decrease recently, but it's still extremely high by historical standards. So we are passionate supporters of on chain scaling, we think the most important thing that needs to happen on Bitcoin right now is a radical increase to the block size.

Unknown Speaker  9:42  
My law is not actually my law.

Unknown Speaker  9:45  
So we you know, segwayed is all right, I don't mean to downplay it. It's really cool technology, but it's it's not what I think or what we think is or as a business needs to happen on Bitcoin right now.

Unknown Speaker  9:55  
Thanks for sharing your point of view. So so I want to touch next On transaction clearing in the space, and the way I see things, roughly organized now is that we have the miners who do on chain transactions processing, and then you know, get a fee from that. And then on the other hand, we have maybe what has been described during the day as kind of like the cloud based services, the exchanges that do internally, transaction settlement, and then finally, maybe settle it on the blockchain or something. So I'm just wondering, what is your take on payment channels, whether that can, you know, somehow disrupt this ecosystem? Could it change the power balance, our miners going to have to see some power to people running lightning nodes or other types of payment channels, just curious about your views?

Unknown Speaker  10:45  
Yeah, so so we actually did, you know, go pretty far down the path and implemented payment channels, and so on in Bitcoin. And the issue, though, was that, because neither segment nor the block size got through for a very long time, the amount that you need to deposit to open a payment channel is very high, relative to the amount of payments, so they're just infeasible priced out of a lot of things, because you don't deposit five bucks to make one center fractions of a cent and payments, you don't pay $1 and 50 cents to make fresh in transaction fees for something like that. So the issue with payment channels has always been the problem of, you know, putting down a slow, large deposit slow, because takes a random, you know, amount of time to get confirmed large because very large relative to the transaction size. And people can say, Oh, you put up one deposit. But you know, it's kind of like people used to say, oh, Java is fast. If you take away the amortization, time for to boot up, right. But in many applications, that amor, that that time at the beginning is actually very important. And having some interest executes right off the bat is important. So I've seen other technologies, actually, that are different from payment channels that are promising for different kinds of micro payments use cases. And some some being published, some haven't been published. So I definitely don't think payment channels are the be all and end all. I mean, we've gone pretty far down that path, they will be useful for some purposes, to my name, some names of those other technologies will publish on it. It's about Yeah, interesting. But so

Unknown Speaker  12:05  
is were you arguing that payment channels is not necessarily a great consumer facing solution, but that it could serve a purpose. On the institutional side,

Unknown Speaker  12:16  
I think it's good for certain kinds of purposes. Like basically, if, if you've got a model where you can tolerate a slow large deposit relative to the amount of money that's being sent? Yes, it'll work for those that you cannot tell her that there are other kinds of things that one can do.

Unknown Speaker  12:32  
When you say slow, though, it takes 10 minutes for a confirmation, typically a Bitcoin. So do you mean something that could be instant on chain?

Unknown Speaker  12:38  
Yeah, exactly like, right, or something that's extremely fast relative to, you know, for example, if you want to do an API call, and you want to have millisecond latency, how can you milk? So let's see one of those ways, actually, that one might be able to do that, if that's a design goal from the beginning.

Unknown Speaker  12:51  
Got it? So when you're getting started to be clear to get onto lightning, it takes it an on chain transaction, but once you're on you can transact Yes,

Unknown Speaker  12:57  
that's right. Good. Started. Yeah. Cuz the issue is that whoever you're transacting with, either you're setting up a deposit with K parties, or you've got a hub, and everybody's putting a deposit with that hub. And it may be the case that, you know, hubs grow large enough and central enough that that deposit time is just like booting up your computer, and you do it once and you never have to do it again. Or you do it every three months. It's like a very long running cookie. That is one model. However, the ability to just rapidly open and close a payment with somebody without a lot of overhead, I think is an important characteristic. And there's design spaces larger.

Unknown Speaker  13:30  
Yeah, so we actually just with our team, we're chatting about ways where you could theoretically open what we're calling virtual channels. This is very preliminary. But there are some very cool things that can be done on top of lightning in that regard, to get to your broader question around exchanges in custody. So one of the biggest risks in our industry is custodial exchanges, for example, where you know, people that had money in Mount Gox, we just saw with BTC E, you know, biffen x when it got hacked. People like to trade in the cryptocurrency industry, right? And there are a lot of these exchanges that are holding custody for others. And that can be a major risk. And then if those keys are compromised, as they had been various types of times in the past, well, you lost your money. So one of the big things we're looking at, building out with lightning is a way to decentralize that custody where you could have various parties that could hold, you know, their own keys, and then still be able to say trade and transact, but not have to risk the fact that, well, if the exchange gets hacked, I lose my money.

Unknown Speaker  14:32  
Yeah, custody is a huge deal. Like, from my experience, there are no custodians in the space that have gotten insurance that matters, like insurance, that is actually something real, and I think that really highlights the risks that we're talking about here. Brian, what are your thoughts? Yeah,

Unknown Speaker  14:49  
so you know, from it's interesting to think about our the way our business works, so we, you know, we're a social media company with based on our technologies based on payment channels, so users can send to each other, we take a portion of the money. And the way this works is, we basically run a lightning node, I use that word carefully, just because our protocol is technically different, but it's very similar in spirit to the way a lightning node works. So from that point of view, just on your your sort of question to her, you know, we we do that as a business, there's a way you can do that you can make a business on this, theoretically, we're not earning very much money right now. But theoretically, we will earn a lot of money from this in the future. Another couple of comments, I'd add to that, though, which are, you know, you mentioned minors term. So it is interesting to consider the implications of this from a from a minor point of view, miners currently are in their money predominantly from the block reward, they earn less money from transaction fees, they're going to have to earn their money from transaction fees in the future, though, because the block reward gradually decreases to zero. So it's threatening from a minor point of view that people are going to work around the miners. This is maybe good, if you don't like the miners, it's maybe bad if you like the security of the network and having miners earn money. So they have an incentive to keep doing proof of work on the network. So I'll just leave that out there as sort of a consequence of this direction and Bitcoin. That it in it's hard to say how this will play out in practice, but I would say it is not necessarily good for the security of the blockchain.

Unknown Speaker  16:22  
Yeah, I've heard it mentioned earlier today that it could be the theory is that it will be sort of a tragedy of the commons problem in the future. If people kind of abandon the main chain and do everything in the second layers.

Unknown Speaker  16:35  
They won't though, because if you're doing a large value transaction, like you can wait 10 minutes, like if you're going to buy a house on the blockchain, you can wait and regardless if it's Litecoin, or Bitcoin, or you're using ether, when you have these high volume transactions, that's when you can go up to layer two, but there's still going to be use cases for the base layer. Undoubtedly,

Unknown Speaker  16:53  
one thing I just gonna say regarding it, I think it's definitely true that at a certain point, mining rewards cut off, however, because the way that mining works, you know, as long as the price is doing more than increasing to x every four years, you have at least constant revenue. And it's doing much better than that. So, you know, you can, I think work out the math, but even though the Bitcoin, you know, block reward has been having the amount dollar value of that block reward has been rising. So it might be a very long time before the block reward is not significant enough, you know, for transaction fees, and then we can sort of deal with that at 100 million or a billion users over that.

Unknown Speaker  17:30  
My next question is about that. Thanks, by the way, this is great. My next question is about chains. Up until fairly recently, we had you know, one dominant chain, people talked about the Bitcoin dominance index, which was in the 90s. So basically, all cryptocurrencies added together, market cap 90% of that was taken by Bitcoin, and that, you know, slowly the client, and then we had a big drop to 30%. Now we're up to close to 50%, because of a huge altcoin rally. So I'm kind of curious, because my observation is that, from a payments point of view, I don't really see evidence yet that other cryptocurrencies than Bitcoin are being used for payments. But I'm curious, what's your take on it? And how do you see the future? Are you preparing for a multi chain future? Or are you mostly building on Litecoin? In the case of Charles or, you know, Ryan, sorry, or in your cases, just curious, where you see things heading,

Unknown Speaker  18:27  
I think it's definitely going to be a multi coin future, I think, you know, part of the concept of decentralization is, don't put all your eggs in one basket. And that applies to the coin level, as well, as you know, within a coin. So you know, there's many currencies in the world, there's going to be many coins in the world, it was awesome, you know, like it to be clear, I'm still so bullish on Bitcoin, I'm still, I still think it's going to get to maybe even a trillion dollars, at the minimum, just competing with gold, and it's got the store value application. But it is something where you've got things which are specialized for different kinds of workloads. And just like there's different programming languages, there's different currencies, there's going to be lots of different chains for different purposes.

Unknown Speaker  19:06  
So the original lightning, white paper was geared toward Bitcoin, but even back then, you know, we understood that it could work on other chains. So right now in LNG, we have support for we have multi chain support, as we call it. And right now, that's Litecoin. And Bitcoin turns out Litecoin is very similar, as I'm sure you know, to Bitcoin. So it wasn't all that difficult to do so. But one of the things that we're really interested in is the concept of cross chain atomic swaps, the ability to transact without counterparty risk in a decentralized manner between currencies, you could perceive some really cool contracting functionalities where you could actually have swaps execute given certain conditions and you could have different currencies, you know, that would be used for different cases, depending upon what's going on

Unknown Speaker  19:49  
what it also increased auditability so that you had an ability audit ability, so you can like, verify that the funds are actually there. Whereas with if you hold your funds with an exchange So in

Unknown Speaker  20:00  
this case it would be you would have custody at the endpoint to the individual you know, it's not even not ability question like you have your own coins, right the point. But for example, let's say you want to do a swap to z cash, and then you want to use, you know, they're shielded transactions, you could do interesting things that could go with the various functionalities of the currencies.

Unknown Speaker  20:19  
So I used to be a Bitcoin maximalist until early 2017. And what changed is so so when I say I was a Bitcoin maximalist, I thought, well, gosh, what's the point in any of these alt coins? They don't seem to have any purpose. We only need one internet money, we don't need 1000 of them. How irritating is that, that we have all these different cryptocurrencies that's really annoying, can't be good for the users. And also money has a strong network effect. But what happened is Bitcoin stopped working for a lot of people, including ourselves. And I think a lot of entrepreneurs saw opportunities here, they saw opportunities to fill needs that weren't being met by Bitcoin. And they saw it before Bitcoin hit a wall. And so they were well prepared for this issue in Bitcoin to start taking, you know, advantage of this opportunity to create if not businesses, I don't know what you call these things, but let's call them projects, I suppose. So I think that I think we're well into that era, I had to reconcile with the fact that I was wrong because I was a Bitcoin maximalist, you know, for for something like almost six years. And I think the reality is we are definitely entering a multi currency world. But I wouldn't count Bitcoin out yet. I think there are a lot of reasons why it's extremely useful to people to have one dominant blockchain, or to put it economically one dominant money. I think money has a strong network effect. I think it is irritating for users to have to do with all these different cryptocurrencies. And I think the reality is, as of today, although there are a lot more cryptocurrencies that have a lot more value than they used to, it's still the case that Bitcoin is the de facto reserve currency of this industry. And I see that continuing for the foreseeable future.

Unknown Speaker  22:02  
Somebody I was just going to comment about when you have these swaps, you would go through Bitcoin to get to other currencies in Bitcoin would still be kind of the exactly reserve currency of all the trading as well. And to be clear, we're big believers in the future of Bitcoin, so we're not ditching it, by any means.

Unknown Speaker  22:17  
Thanks for your thoughts. I'm, I'm curious about just going forward again, what are your thoughts on the biggest driver on the one hand, and the biggest challenge for cryptocurrencies in say, the next two years?

Unknown Speaker  22:30  
biggest driver is probably going to be tokenization. I think that tokenization like, actually, Ryan made a comment about, you know, are they businesses or the projects, Dorsey actually made a comment a few years ago, which is the reason he did Twitter was that a, you know, US headquarter, Delaware C Corp was the best vehicle for him to achieve the ambition that he wanted to achieve. That may have changed, right? Like, you know, if I was 20, something, I would never again, start a company in the United States of America, I would only do things pure blockchain. And the reason is because like, you know, it's immature today, but it's going to improve very rapidly. And tokenization removes the last hook to the United States, right, like Sand Hill Road and Wall Street, like where the company begins and ends have had a gravitational pull era and said, Oh, where's the next Silicon Valley? Is this country? Is it that country? No, the next Silicon Valley is in the cloud, right. And we've actually put all the pieces up there already. We put slack up there, and we put Gmail up there. And we have you know, Uber and Airbnb, so you can get around your cars in the cloud, your your houses in the cloud, etc, you can just rent it on demand, everything else can be put on demand. The one thing that couldn't be was funding. And so you had entrepreneurs from India and Israel and other places have tried to make the pilgrimage to sand hill to raise money, and it's very inorganic to do that. And then if they did raise money, then folks wouldn't want to go and fly out to, you know, the UK or Israel or what have you. So that be forced to headquarter here. And so that led to this kind of starting up network effect right. Now that's been broken, and you can raise from anywhere in the world, given obviously being compliant with all relevant laws in your jurisdiction. I think you're going to see a rapid decentralization of technology out of the United States. And I think you're going to see tokenisation be like, you know, a buzzword that you see a 10,000 times like, like virtualization was in the in the early 2000s.

Unknown Speaker  24:15  
And then do you have thoughts on the challenge? The biggest challenge? Yeah,

Unknown Speaker  24:18  
well, so I think, well, the challenge is going to be it's very, very technically challenging to build decentralized systems. That just hard. It's there. Because since they're spread out, you can't just push an update. If you think about how hard it can be to just keep a single server running, right? We need to rethink everything that we've done for reliability, robustness updates, failover, load balancing, blah, blah, blah, you name it for decentralized systems, where the folks may not even want to pull an update locally because not in their incentive to do so. Are there incentives aren't aligned? So like just a gigantic amount of computer science game theory and so on has to pass to happen. I think it will. But, but it's hard. And I think the second aspect For security, it's just not easy to program the systems when you've got 10s of millions of dollars at stake. Even Gavin wood had that parody bug. So you know who else can can do it? Right?

Unknown Speaker  25:09  
Yeah, reminds me of what Brian brown Cohen said earlier is that it's so incredibly hard to build something robust, and that you really need to focus and maybe even get it wrong for three years until you finally launch your protocol.

Unknown Speaker  25:20  
Yeah, I think I think a very good model is something that we call progressive decentralization, just like progressive web development, where you'll render, you know, page in based on, you know, browser support, and, you know, you'll fall back so that it gives you something reasonable even at the beginning. You know, in the same way, progressive decentralization basically says, Okay, let's bootstrap or start with a centralized or semi centralized system, and then have a roadmap to progressively decentralized aspects. And towards the end, where it's full decentralization, you have a here be dragons, where people recognize that it may not be feasible to get there, but maybe you might be able to use piece of the system to then get to the next one.

Unknown Speaker  25:52  
Thanks, Elizabeth. What are your thoughts on? Sorry? Yeah, we come from Yeah, biggest challenge and the big I'm

Unknown Speaker  25:59  
gonna quickly comment. So on the question of Icos, since I know that's a really hot topic, I will say that I am an Ico skeptic. I'm not inherently against the idea of being able to raise capital and other ways. But right now, what we've seen is a whole lot of projects, very few of whom have a lot of substance that are raising way too much money at very high valuations. It's kind of like Silicon Valley, season two, Episode One, if anybody's ever seen one, the guy's like, what? I didn't have to raise that much money at that high valuation. I do think we'll see. Interesting. So people heard about what happened with the SEC. Now, ways to potentially do it legally, I think we'll have to see way more reasonable valuations. So there is potential there. But in its current state, for example, there was an Ico that actually just copied the lightning white paper and raised like, $80 million worth of eath. So yeah, yeah, actually, yes. I've had friends say they get nine proposals per day of white papers that just don't make any sense. So we there's a crazy frenzy going on right now. And the valuations are incredibly high. Very quickly, to get to your questions. In terms of opportunity. I do think, you know, the current global climate, there's a lot of uncertainty there. And, you know, for better or for worse, like, I do think that does mean, we need a global, you know, internet store of value. And this is going to continue to be highly valuable. And right now we're in like, 1995. When it comes to the blockchain, as I mentioned that earlier in my talk, in terms of the development of this technology, I do believe something like lightning and layer two with block stack can really bring us forward and really get to the use cases where real people can use it. The drawbacks is actually still hard to use. Think about, like, sending PGP email that is hard. There's some study that it took MIT students 30 minutes just to figure out how to set a PGP. You know, similarly, like sending Bitcoin, it's how many people here think sending Bitcoin is easy. Okay, not that many, right. So we can really improve the user experience on a lot of these technologies. And there's a lot of work left to be done. So I would say that that is a major drawback. And then also, the intersection between security and usability. Because something can be really secure and super hard to use. Or it could be really easy, and then you could have your coin stolen easily. So we need to strike that balance three

Unknown Speaker  28:14  
points. What I was gonna remark one thing, I do think there is a distinction between tokenization and Icos, in the sense of, for example, Bitcoin was arguably tokenized using today's parlance, but there's no Ico. And I think you could also do something with like, for example, a number of these private blockchain consortiums, you could tokenize it such that the original token was like split between the parties for you know, kind of developing it, but there's no like public Ico, for example. So they're, they're related, but not exactly the same, just

Unknown Speaker  28:42  
so I guess I'll say I agree with both Elizabeth and Balaji. Although they said quite different things. I there's there's definitely truth in both them. I I like Elizabeth, I'm definitely a skeptic, in the sense that there are obviously lots of scams, there. Lots of projects, even if they're not scams, but they're never going to build what they're promising, and it's never going to work the way they say it is. So I think a lot of the products, some of them, I think might last some of them might work. Most of them won't. That's also true for businesses in general. It's true for startup companies and things really small businesses, you know, they often fail and so on. So that's not necessarily different. So, but I am still definitely a skeptic of most of the actual projects. That said, I still agree with biology that actually it does, I would say it doesn't matter. And I think that tokens are going to continue to actually drive the space board for the seeable future anyway, it doesn't matter if most of them are scams. If you have one project in 100, that actually does what they're delivering on and they're worth they're promising to deliver on. They're promising a lot. So you don't need a whole lot of those to drive the whole space forward. And with respect to like, you know, it also means depends on what you mean by driving the space forward. tokens are gonna raise the price of everything, the price we're gonna keep seeing rising prices of cryptocurrencies, I think indefinitely I'm not saying there won't be a crash.

Unknown Speaker  29:56  
We're gonna get to 1999 at one point. Yeah,

Unknown Speaker  29:59  
yeah. Well, we Well, we're not there yet, but we will get to 1999 at some point. But I think for now, I don't think we're there yet. And I think we're gonna keep seeing rising prices. But I also do want to pitch that from a different point of view, I do actually believe payments can and will also help drive the space forward. The difference is payments, you don't it's not going to increase the price of cryptocurrencies, because when you use cryptocurrencies for payments, you get in and you get out. Our users want fiat currency, they don't care about cryptocurrency, they're not in this for speculation, they just want to either sell an article for 10 cents or buy an article for 10 cents. So that will drive the usage of the space forward. But we're gonna still see a lot of hype around tokens and all that stuff. On the on the other flip side of it, the challenges. Look, there are two challenges. Maybe three, I would say technical is extremely important. And when I say that, I'm talking primarily, actually how to actually use the technology to build products, which is extremely difficult right now. So that's really important. And number two is regulatory, although I think the regulatory one is we're already seeing is actually not going to be that much of a problem. Because what's actually going to happen is people are going to leave the countries that kind of suck, and they're going to go to the countries that are all rights. So I'm not actually sure that regulatory is that big of a problem. It's a problem for the US.

Unknown Speaker  31:16  
And it's a problem if you're a Russian in Greece who had an exchange. Yeah, recently. Yeah.

Unknown Speaker  31:21  
Let's end on that note. I have a lot more questions. I'd love to ask, but this was fascinating. Thanks so much, guys. Thank you.

Transcribed by https://otter.ai
