Unknown Speaker  0:01  
So we did just say this was all about hacking hackathons. But we do want to keep a conversation going with people who are kind of talking about big ideas, important ideas. So we'd like to invite a few speakers onto the stage.

Unknown Speaker  0:16  
So our moderator will be Karthik tower from Heath global and SV Angel, and deserves a big round of applause for all the work that he's done. If you see him where to go, man, if you see him say, Thank you, and everybody else that he's global as well. We have Balaji Srinivasan, the CTO of Coinbase

Unknown Speaker  0:36  
x 20 one.co, and earn calm

Unknown Speaker  0:39  
as well, among many others.

Unknown Speaker  0:40  
And vitalik buterin, the founder of Bitcoin magazine,

Unknown Speaker  0:45  
welcome, thank you.

Unknown Speaker  1:05  
Okay, before we start, I'd like to just clarify that I'm not the only one that made this event happen. There's about 100 people from volunteers, to organizers to everybody who supported us. So I think they should get a bigger round of applause than just a global. So we're gonna cover a lot of stuff here, everything from going to high level thoughts into this ecosystem to going granular into the tech. But let's just start off with something simple. I know you guys have a really good history of meeting a few years ago, Balaji, why don't you tell us about how you met metallic initially?

Unknown Speaker  1:42  
Yeah, sure. So um, the first time I met metallic was actually in late 2013, when I was at Andreessen Horowitz. And at that time, a block stream or the ancestors of block stream and the ancestors of aetherium. Were actually all co founders of the same gigantic startup. Most people don't know that blockchain and theorem were once on the same side. And there's just huge conference room with a bunch of people there. And I said, Who are the founders, and everybody raised their hand at the same time. And I was like, Oh, that's gonna be interesting. So that's how I met photog.

Unknown Speaker  2:15  
Awesome. So, we're also going to do a q&a at the end. And if you have any questions for photogra, Balaji, please tweet us at at eat San Francisco or use the hashtag eth San Francisco and we'll kind of moderate and, and get the questions up at the end. So whatever like your your title is Chief Scientist at the theorem Foundation, or the theorem project, and Balaji, you are the CTO of Coinbase. What is it that you actually do at these organizations? What is kind of your day to day look like? What are some of the responsibilities of projects you're involved with, kind of give us an overview of what you do. Um,

Unknown Speaker  2:50  
number one fundamental research on things like proof of steak sharding, plasma protocol, economics. And number two, helping to kind of go a little further down the pipeline and actually write down the spec, very often write proof of concept code for kind of testing and proving and simulating different kinds of ideas, or at least writing what would eventually ends up kind of becoming the first version of certain pieces of code, coordinating with and talking to other researchers do like kind of participating in the discussion around the Ethereum foundation annual Foundation's overall strategy

Unknown Speaker  3:32  
fighting with Bitcoin maximalist trolls on Twitter?

Unknown Speaker  3:36  
The probably the big ones.

Unknown Speaker  3:39  
Yeah, so I joined in May and typical, you know, typically what I do is one part technology, one part management, and I'm trying to, we're driving Coinbase towards a, you know, multi asset or many asset, and, you know, many new crypto technology future. And so I'm doing a lot of that, you'll see a bunch of that manifesting on Coinbase, you know, this quarter and in the quarters to come. And a typical day is basically like, you know, can be writing API specs it can be on it can be you know, managing folks, it could be working through all the various legal details to get something new launched.

Unknown Speaker  4:15  
Great, kind of taking a step back, how did you initially get involved into this space and sort of what motivates you and why?

Unknown Speaker  4:23  
So I first joined this bass back in 2011. And I heard about it from my dad and I actually ignored it because I thought Wait, how can kind of pure bits on a computer that are not backed by anything have value? Then I heard about it again from the internet. And I thought okay, this might be something that's kind of worth looking into. And I popped into the Bitcoin forums then you know, comes the story that I already told in many cases many times about starting to write for Bitcoin or Bitcoin weekly, then moving over to Bitcoin magazine would interested in me about Bitcoin was that it was really kind of combination of different things that all interested in me individually put together. So I was already doing a lot of math and computer science, I was already interested in an economic and political topics, I was already interested in open source software, and Bitcoin. And at the time, it really was just Bitcoin kind of was all of these things put together. And it seems like an idea that was kind of at least interesting enough to kind of be an idea as a community that was interesting enough to what we still be worth drawing this again, so.

Unknown Speaker  5:40  
Yeah, so, you know, I heard I first heard about Bitcoin, I think in either 2010 or early 2011. And was following it through the, you know, the initial bubble and whatnot. And it gave me a lot of faith in it was, you know, the technology was awesome. But it was the recovery after that first bubble crash, and then, you know, come back over 2012 that made me think, Okay, this might have legs, not just as a technology, but as a market phenomenon. And got very heavily into it late 2012, early 2013, tough one, the first class at Stanford on it in early 2013. Actually, a lot of a lot of blockchain entrepreneurs came out of that class. And, and then, you know, the whole thing really took off in 2013. That's great,

Unknown Speaker  6:23  
kind of just falling from that. In 2014, when you thought about working on aetherium, what was sort of the original vision and sort of how has that changed so far, from your perspective, as the years have passed? And Balaji? If you were to comment on that later, how has your perspective schools still kind of being involved from the early on stages has changed a lot the ecosystem?

Unknown Speaker  6:43  
So my vision for aetherium actually started off being incredibly unambitious, right, because I was working on this project called mastercoin. And mastercoin was this initially as well. And always this a layer two system on top of Bitcoin that was trying to experience the utility of the blockchain, going beyond just payments into other use cases, including decentralized exchange, betting domain name systems, crowdfunding, like contract smart, different kinds of contracts. And mastercoin took what I described as a Swiss Army Knife approach, where they said, Here's 23 use cases, for each use case, let's make a future. And let's make a protocol with 23 features. And I was kind of hired into this team very briefly. And my immediate approach is, can we try to take some of these features and immediately start generalizing them, right? Can we start, instead of creating 30 features for 30 use cases come up with single features that can be designed in ways that are kind of more general purpose and abstract and allow a bunch of other sets of use cases. So I started off just kind of generalizing to party financial contracts. And I basically said, instead of just having one parameter, which is the leverage, you turn it into the whole thing into a mathematical formula. Then from there, I even created this white paper that I call the ultimate scripting. And the idea was basically to replace pastor coins entire feature set with a programming language. And they sent us this white paper off to the master coin team. And I thought, like, this is obviously such a powerful and amazing and obviously the right way to go. And they said, Hmm, this looks interesting. But this seems ambitious. And this seems like this will be a very far along step in a roadmap, and maybe we'll get to it in a year. And I'm like, Guys, this is like, so obviously, the thing that you should post to do, and you're gonna wait an entire year, well, screw that I'm gonna do it myself. And started doing that wrote the white paper myself sent, it's 15 people, and not every theory came from came out of that. And over time, the vision kind of expanded almost even more with the feedback from other people than out of my own initiative. Right. Other people started coming up with ideas, building applications, and I just realized, hey, wait, you can use general purpose blockchains for this other stuff, hey, wait, you can use general purpose blockchains for this other stuff. And it kind of slowly dawns on you know, probably both me on the theorem community in general, that it really a general purpose. blockchains really are general purpose and really are usable for a much wider variety of things than we thought blockchain should be used for back in 2013.

Unknown Speaker  9:25  
Get Anything to add, from your perspective of the project from the initial phases? Or do you have any comments to add from kind of your perspective from meeting and learning about the project early on to how you've seen it evolve? Now?

Unknown Speaker  9:41  
Yeah, well, you know, in the early days, actually, I remember some of the folks who were working batalik talked about, like colored coins. And that was a big thing. And if you google colored coins, you can see a video from that time period. And now of course, we have called those tokens. And a lot of the content or a lot of the concepts from tokens are Similar. So it was interesting to see certain things which couldn't be done on the Bitcoin blockchain, you know, first there was exit in the form of aetherium. And now there's exit in the form of many other chains. And a lot of that pent up innovation has kind of come out over the last like year and a half or so.

Unknown Speaker  10:16  
Got it? What is mainstream adoption mean to you? What do you think we are in sort of just the adoption curve for cryptocurrencies in general? With aetherium, nearing four years, Bitcoin nearing 10 years? Kind of how do you look at that as a broader space?

Unknown Speaker  10:31  
So, you know, where we are now, I think, is, you know, in 10s of millions of users land, right. And there's a difference between that versus hundreds of millions and obviously, billions, right. And truly mainstream, probably in the US, would be when we're at hundreds of millions, globally, it's probably mainstream in the US, billions globally, it's mainstream worldwide. Um, I think it gets to mainstream in the US probably over the next decade or so it might take more like 10 to 20 years for it to get mainstream worldwide. And that's still a very fast growth rate. That kind of mirrors kind of the rise of internet. Um, and that's like one quantitative difference definition of what mainstream is.

Unknown Speaker  11:09  
So back in something, I think, 2011 or 2012, I think they either wrote this article, or kind of expressed this idea somewhere that there that I saw three possible paths for what at the time was just Bitcoin were one, the analogies I made are kind of Esperanto, Linux and the internet. And Esperanto was this kind of language that approved that a guy named I think ludvigsen van Hoff came up with in the 1900s. And he thought that if we create this artificial language, which is kind of completely regular, maximally easy to learn, and it's politically neutral, then we could get the whole world to speak it. And but it ended up just never taking off. And you know, what has the small enthusiast community but it just never grows at all. beyond that. And Linux, you know, it's a, there's this, you know, there's the joke in the Linux community that the, that the year of Linux on the desktop is always like, the current year plus five, or whatever it is. And, you know, there's the dream, and the dream never ends up being fully realized. But even still, Linux totally survives as a legitimate alternative to kind of more mainstream proprietary operating systems. And it has achieved like extremely real successes in places that it didn't even think of before, like, you know, in mobile, through Android and in servers. And so the internet, as you know, Bitcoin is the next great invention since the beginning of the internet itself. And that whole kind of expansionist vision, I would say, at this point, we've definitely gotten enough adoption that we're way past that phase where we have to worry about it becoming Esperanto. Whether it looks more like Linux, or more like the internet, I think we're definitely still unsure. And it definitely still is one of those kind of Time will tell sort of issues. Like the big question is, basically, Are there going to be applications that actually do manage to kind of use blockchains and use blockchains kind of front and center in ways that you know, reach very large numbers of people. And Realistically speaking, cryptocurrency is probably still the primary candidate for that, but there are other candidates that are slowly starting to come up. And if anything in that room, in that area takes off, then great. But even if it doesn't, you know, the Linux outcome is still I think, you know, much stronger than anything that any of us were hoping for five years ago, and that would basically be a combination of a kind of fairly Nishi, risky, user base for cryptocurrencies plus block chains being used to notarize and secure a whole bunch of stuff, you know, being used to improve the guarantee of a bunch of algorithms, a bunch of mechanisms, doing a bunch of things in the back end, and then of impacting the lives of billions of people and directly, so

Unknown Speaker  13:51  
we'll see.

Unknown Speaker  13:53  
Yeah, so I actually I like that trichotomy ization of like, niche nerd. Next Big Thing, right. But I would also add maybe to that, Linux, even though it was nerd, it actually did win on the desktop, just the next stop, right? The mobile, desktop, Android and whatnot. And that's kind of an interesting way of thinking about the emergence of crypto is like Linux, it's initially a producer technology, right? It's something that makes developers lives you know, better, it makes investor's lives better, like power users on and it's actually more useful if you're building a new, you know, financial service, or you're trying to do new things with investing than just for the average person. And Linux went through that phase for a long time. It wasn't good for the average person, but it's great for the person who's building Google and, you know, Amazon, and Facebook, and so on. And then eventually, it became useful for the average person through Android. And I think that might be an emergence path for how crypto works, where it's useful for all you guys, you can build, you know, new products and services with it. And then eventually, you know, just it becomes useful for the average person, as it diffuses out from the developers and the producer.

Unknown Speaker  15:01  
Those are those are excellent points I actually emerges with the the next question I was gonna ask. So I'll just skip that. But kind of just deep diving a bit deeper into this kind of with that narrative and sort of these now possibilities. How do you 10 X or 100? x this ecosystem? Anywhere from technological sides to distribution to use cases? How did you think about that?

Unknown Speaker  15:22  
Sure. So one one angle that we're thinking about, there's there's many, but um, one angle is, there's at least three ways to get crypto, you can mine it, you can buy it, you can earn it on and, you know, we did the hardest way first, which is setting up, you know, mining farms and then buying came on a little bit later. And I think earning is still something that's open and interesting. And with acquisition of earned by Coinbase, we're working on ways to make earning crypto as easy as just, you know, like buying it, just click a button and earn. And if that works, then it would work anywhere, there's an internet connection, because you just click a task and you know, make money. So that's one possible approach. There's other approaches as well, which are based around taking all these new coins that are coming out, and really stressing the utility, right? You know, investment is generic, buy, sell, send, receive, but utility is specific, you know, for example, send a shielded transaction with z cash, or use VA t in your browser, or use rep for something or use, you know, like zR x or something, they've got unique things you can do with them. And each of those individual markets and niches, maybe those can be pulled into cryptocurrency as well, because those kryptos end up doing something unique, as it's another approach potentially.

Unknown Speaker  16:36  
The other suggestion on the market side that I've raised a couple of times, it's just making it easier for people to buy small amounts of cryptocurrency and corner stores. So just increasing the accessibility of you know, I want 40 bucks of crypto, Justin often need to participate in some applications a little bit in paper, a bunch of transaction fees. Because if you don't have even the small amounts of cryptocurrency, that it's hard to participate in public blockchain applications that are even non financial in nature. On the protocol side, I think solving the scalability challenges is obviously paramount. Because otherwise, if the user base grows, I'll pay another 10 X and transaction fees are going to be back up going up to like five, five or $50. And another important thing is usability. And that includes kind of the traditional notion of usability of making things kind of look and feel user friendly and intuitive, but also, what I call like, I don't tend to talk about usability versus security, I talk about usability of security. So how do we make it kind of maximally user friendly to use coins and to use them, but not kind of accidentally do things or have things happen to you that you really, really don't want, like $100,000 of your money disappearing into a black hole. And if those usability issues can be solved, I think it also cuts down the friction by quite a bit. And I know there are quite a lot of great projects that are starting to work on that.

Unknown Speaker  18:07  
I guess as you follow on Balaji you you had a company or calm that tried being able to kind of monetize users and and emails and being able to get people cryptocurrencies for the first time as like the first way to acquire them. What are kind of just expanding on metallics answers on how do you get people to initially own small amounts of cryptocurrencies? What were some of the learnings from from doing our comm?

Unknown Speaker  18:30  
Yeah, so we actually, you know, we got the company to like a 10 million run rate before we before we sold it. And the, you know, what are the learnings on that? Well, in theory, you can do lots and lots of different kinds of tasks, you know, paid tasks. In practice, we found that those tasks that were crypto native in some way were the most popular initially, because that was a community that was familiar with it, and that liked accepting crypto. Um, I do think that over time, you know, as, as we get better at smaller payments, as batalik was talking about, as we have more people who are familiar with crypto, it'll become very common to just like, you know, you tweet and you're sending information, you know, or you fav somebody tweet or whatever you're saying, like, like a bit of information effectively, but plus a lot of metadata. It'll be very, very common to do these tiny little payments as part of doing other actions within an app. Right. So the blockchain is part of it. It's an important part of the app, but it's an enabling part of the app. And there's other stuff around it, um, in like, earnest, like one manifestation of that, but there's others. And so it's one of the things I thought a lot about,

Unknown Speaker  19:35  
do you think a bigger audience for for blockchains? In general, is machine to machine payments? Or is it broader or bigger on the user side, if that makes sense? The biggest consumers, will they be machines paying machines, or is it humans interacting with machines?

Unknown Speaker  19:51  
Well, I think it's a completely new thing that you can have machines holding money. That like didn't exist before that you could literally put a private key on it. And actually have a true intelligent agent that could earn on, you know, on its own and trade on its own. So simply the fact that that's possible is a new thing. Um, I think it'll take a while for the fullness of that to be appreciated. But, you know, I know that it's already a subculture. You know, the trading bot subculture, there's all these people who communicate about this stuff. They they do these algorithms online. And there's people who do this from college students all the way up to like, large hedge funds do this. So so there's definitely starting to be that movement. It's hard to say whether what the percentages will be in the future, though.

Unknown Speaker  20:37  
The Italian batalik if, if you were to comment on some of the most underrated technological improvements in the theorem, ecosystem, what would you say some of those things are

Unknown Speaker  20:46  
underrated technological improvements, I would probably say zekey at this point as ek snarks and specifically the extent to which you can use ck snarks already to improve the privacy and scale and scalability of applications. Like there are teams already like there's the team being led by Barry White Hat is probably the biggest one that are like trying really hard on making the beat making things like privacy preserving tools. For a theory, I'm using snarks to create more scalable ways of transaction batching techniques to create more secure and more scalable versions of plasma chains and things like that. So I think there's definitely, there's definitely a lot of people that don't appreciate just kind of how close the technology is to reality and already,

Unknown Speaker  21:37  
but Balaji, what would you say are the most overrated parts of this space?

Unknown Speaker  21:42  
Well, you know, I always respect the folks who are working hard and, you know, respect entrepreneurs and so on. I do think that the whole, you know, banking movement of, you know, blockchain, not Bitcoin and private blockchain and so on, arguably overrated. And, you know, the reason is, I think a blockchain without a native digital asset is something which, you know, you'll lose a lot of the benefits of a blockchain, I believe, and I think, you know, private blockchains may have a v2, where people realize, Hey, I'll do like a private Ico, it will be set up as a, like a joint venture, where you have 10 companies in a consortium, but they have actually a percentage of the token, and then it actually might work again, but I think the whole concept of blockchain without Bitcoin was it was a dead end.

Unknown Speaker  22:26  
A question for both of you, what is your favorite data tree data structure?

Unknown Speaker  22:31  
Um, sparse Merkle tree is?

Unknown Speaker  22:37  
Me, I mean, standard binary tree is good, you know, hash map, I use them all.

Unknown Speaker  22:44  
vitalik What is it theorem 2.0? Just Can you kind of go into some details on what it is why it matters. And so

Unknown Speaker  22:51  
aetherium 2.0 is this kind of catch all term for a combination of different paths toward you know, seriously, and fundamentally revamping the Ethereum blockchain that we've been working on over the last few years, where one of those is proof of stake Casper, a one of those that's sharding. One of those is the switch from the current Ethier Iam if you're in virtual machine to some of the webassembly based one, and one of them is a set of kind of miscellaneous improvements, including things like abstraction, improved protocol economics that I wrote a paper on recently, among other kinds of things like that. And aetherium. 2.0 is basically the kind of new version of aetherium that will take all of these different improvements and put them together and essentially create what we believe is the best possible design for a general purpose blockchain, given what we know in 2018. And so the goal is to kind of have a roadmap to migrate aetherium over into kind of being that over the next few years.

Unknown Speaker  23:57  
So could you elaborate a bit more on when and what does that timeline look like? And sort of what goes into determining those things?

Unknown Speaker  24:05  
Sure. So one of the kind of big things that's made me a lot more optimistic about the whole thing over the last maybe four months, specifically is that the research side has really kind of congealed and stabilized a huge amount, right? It feels like the research side at this point is like there's no kind of significant unsolved theoretical problems left. It's basically all details and kind of safety checking and verification. And right now, it's basically the kind of a software development swag, right? And we're familiar with software development swag. So like, if you recall, aetherium 1.0, going from the original first step of the Ethereum white paper to aetherium 1.0 being released all together took 19 months. And right now we're actually very significantly ahead of the initial white paper release like I would say right now with your m 2.0. And with where the protocol is and where the software develop Manila is probably where Ethereum 1.0 was possibly in maybe the fall of 2014. And that means, and there are already, you know, like independent company is like, for example, prismatic lighthouse status with Nimbus, and a couple of consensus parity, starting to work on kind of independent implementations of the CASPER and charting spec. And I expect test nets to be coming up fairly soon. And then, you know, we'll have in parallel work happening on test nets, and along with formal verification of the protocol auditing of the protocol auditing of the code and implementations. And that will at some point, kind of culminate in, you know, like some, some form of main net release. So,

Unknown Speaker  25:46  
just kind of quickly digging into this, what's sort of the rationale behind having other teams work in parallel? And kind of how do you see that versus the theorem foundation or the core protocol team?

Unknown Speaker  25:57  
Sure. So it could aetherium community kind of really strongly believed in this idea of multiple implementations, basically, since day one. So for those who remember the 2014 to 15, development slog, right, you had Python get go deaf and c++, basically developing the protocol in parallel all the way through with the intention that all three of these implementations would be viable implementations of the of the protocol that people could run in years. And the goal behind this was a large part of it was political, like basically, we the kind of what we perceived as kind of failures of development, centralization in the Bitcoin ecosystem. And that kind of arose from the existence of a single implementation. implementation, there is something that we thought that we wanted to avoid, basically, by saying, There is no such thing as a reference implementation. And the reference is the protocol. And the protocol is, you know, the yellow paper and the protocol is distinct from implementations of the protocol. This time around, we're actually going a bit further because there is one version of the of this of the protocol, which is made by kind of people who are formally hired by us by the theorem foundation as full time developers, and that's the Python implementation. Look, Python is a small language, and everyone knows that there's plenty of contexts in which Python is just set up, and it's just not going to win. Right? So it's, like if, and so that kind of naturally sets it up for kind of competition between outside entities to create the client clients that people will end up using. And in therapy, many people, they use Python as well. Hopefully, but not in every context. And you know, so the theorem foundation basically gives grants in part and other companies are giving grants as well. So to and so with, in the case of status, you know, Nimbus is itself funded by statuses fairly large ICL raise, right, so the goal is to have this kind of robust dynamic community ecosystem. And on top of that, it also means it has this very pragmatic dimension where it insulates the Ethereum community against the risk of any one of these teams failing and any one of these teams just ending up to not being able to figure out how to do software development, correct life.

Unknown Speaker  28:18  
Yeah, one of the things actually, that Brian Armstrong and me and Fred are some were impressed by by aetherium, in the early days, was that it did have a protocol spec, it, it did divide a protocol from a specific implementation and had multiple implementations on, you know, one of the things we actually been thinking about doing recently is publishing like a coin base API standard, that would have maybe a similar effect for what we do with security, because not all blockchains provide the ability for you to separate coal storage, signing and broadcasting. And that's like a critical kind of thing. And there's other kinds of things like how can you do staking, for example, in a way that it's not all with a hot wallet and what have you. So there's aspects of potentially security where we could publish API specs and ethical code to them.

Unknown Speaker  29:06  
So we've already started to receive a lot of questions from the audience. So if you have any other other questions we'll keep ask them on Twitter with the hashtag eat San Francisco. And we'll kind of roll them up in a few minutes. But I'll ask one that I just received, which is kind of for both of you. What do you wish people in this space would stop doing that you constantly see happening a lot.

Unknown Speaker  29:26  
Just stop fighting online build stuff, you know.

Unknown Speaker  29:38  
I would edit that slightly to fight online constructively. But I do think disagreement is important as important and proposals need to be criticized. I'm like I need to be criticized and will and flat needs to be criticized and like, like every single research every single idea regardless of the soil of who it comes from, you know, it needs to kind of pass a trial by fire because ultimately a will pass a trial by fire by people who are much more benevolent malevolence, then, you know, trolls inside aetherium community

Unknown Speaker  30:15  
that makes sense.

Unknown Speaker  30:18  
Kind of branching off from one of your previous answers. Should everything be open source in this space? How do you kind of think about what does it mean to have like the IP kind of advantage to what should be private versus public? And kind of how do you think through that? Or how should one think through that in this space?

Unknown Speaker  30:35  
Well, you know, a possibly perhaps trivial but useful, you know, limit case is your private keys are not open source, right? So obviously, not everything is going to be open source, you're going to keep something private. And then there's a continuum there between, okay, what is as valuable? What are the crown jewels, like your private keys? And, you know, what, what can you put out in public? And one of the awesome things about blockchains is they offer a new way to monetize open source things of all kinds. I think we're gonna see blockchain versions of many other kinds of protocols. We've got already blockchain competitors for DNS, we'll see blockchain competitors for smtp. And, you know, other other kinds of protocols coming out there, I'm already seeing them. And so I think a larger percentage of open source projects can be monetized. So we'll see a larger percentage of things that will be open source with a blockchain component. Hmm.

Unknown Speaker  31:29  
I mean, I would say the general principle is that it's more it's relatively speaking more importance to open source things that are closer to the bottom layer and closer to the center and less important to open source things that are kind of closer to the edges and periphery, and particularly, kind of not protocols, but software that participates in protocols. So one trivial example of something that where I think the interesting bits will be proprietary, pretty much forever is software involved in like market making arbitrage, and generally participating in financial markets. But, you know, the financial market itself being a fully open source, decentralized exchange is something that's absent that I think is great,

Unknown Speaker  32:16  
right? So like, that's just one example of where the corporate free boundary is. One is one good way of thinking about it. One of the things that's interesting is, in this space, you know, people will say, Oh, you could just take a coin, you could take a chain, you could take a smart contract, and you can just fork it endlessly. And where's the scarcity come in? And, you know, related to the concept of, you know, do we open source everything. One thing I think is implicit is a lot of value derives from the backlink structure, like, the reason that with the bch BTC split, that everything didn't just go to bch in the same way as to BTC is a lot of things were pointing at, you know, the the longer chain, right. And so the backlink structure, I think, is something that is a form of scarcity that we don't normally think about that is distinct from whether the source code is out there and public is whether things are actually pointing to and trusting that particular database or that particular source code or instantiation.

Unknown Speaker  33:12  
God, I'm also going to start merging in questions that are coming in from the audience. So we'll kind of just have a mix of both versus doing a separate segment on just audience questions. So the interesting question that came up is kind of what do you think are some of the cool things, anything from technological to community that's happening and other blockchains that aetherium should adopt?

Unknown Speaker  33:32  
I'm on the, on the community side, I know what one of the things I love about z cash is this kind of separation between z cash foundation and z cash and z cash Co. And where Zuko is part of one and not the other in the end like they have. And I think that they've actually done a kind of quite good job of just setting up a community in a way in a way where there is kind of a limited level of influence in kind of both one kind of person and one organization. In other one of the interesting ideas that I think Zuko came up with this, this idea that control like practical control over protocol development, and control over trademark ownership should be maximally separate. And that's, I think, an interesting idea that probably in Ethereum and probably other public blockchains, should consider adopting, because, you know, unfortunately, there isn't really a good way to kind of have a trademark and not be owned by anyone. But this does seem like a kind of pragmatic, pragmatic approach that does kind of minimize the centralization harm that can come out of that issue, particularly

Unknown Speaker  34:48  
Balaji. I guess, to add on to that, what are some of the technological advancements that you're tracking personally outside of what's going on at Coinbase?

Unknown Speaker  34:56  
Um, well, certainly, we're looking at all the privacy coin related stuff you ck snarks, Starks, both proofs. We are, you know, I can't talk about everything we're looking at. But, you know, we're obviously aware of, um, you know, stable coins were aware of, you know, what's going on with, like things like token curated registries, you know, we pay attention to a lot of the stuff. But the thing is Quinn base, his role is sort of to mainstream blockchain, which means that by necessity, we're not on the cutting edge, right? Like, if something is truly on the cutting edge of on the bleeding edge, it's not really ready for 10s of millions of users typically. So we tried to, you know, do what Apple does, which is take a technology that's in its spring, and it's proven itself a bit, and it's not going to have like a like a CBE on day one. And when it's ready for getting to 10s of millions of users, then we'll mainstream it. So those are the kinds of things that we're looking at.

Unknown Speaker  35:53  
This is a really good segue into our next part, which is we're gonna steal the underrated or overrated segment from Tyler Collins podcasts. So I'll I'll name a handful of topics. And the way you kind of play this is you have to say, is it underrated or overrated? And a quick answer on why. So we'll start off with z k. snarks.

Unknown Speaker  36:14  
I say about correctly rated at this point. Like, they are power, they are very powerful and general, I think, general purpose private privacy, or a general purpose zero knowledge proofs is like a really huge advancements in cryptography, right? Because if you look ioz, the early following cryptography maybe 10 to 15 years ago back when zero knowledge proofs for this kind of application specific protocol, and you had to come up with specific protocols for specific use cases. And it was super lame. And now it's I mean, the fact that we that we're fairly close to the point where you can make privacy preserving protocols for just very large classes of things involving just through abstract programming languages is huge. And I do think that, you know, the community recognizes that

Unknown Speaker  37:03  
underrated or overrated, z k, snarks or Starks.

Unknown Speaker  37:07  
Well, I mean, I think Zika snarks are still underrated and people in this audience know what they are. But after sapling, you know, comes out in a few weeks, you know, I think it just gets mainstream to a much greater extent. And we haven't even yet explored where it's going to get. And then with Starks and bullet proofs, I think, you know, where it's going to go to the next level, because, you know, we eliminate the trusted setup. And we have, you know, even faster, you know, transactions and possibly smaller, you know, proof sizes. So, I think all those technologies are underrated, relative to what the general population knows about them.

Unknown Speaker  37:45  
Non fungible tokens underrated or overrated.

Unknown Speaker  37:49  
I add on the margin, I'd say overrated.

Unknown Speaker  37:53  
It's, I don't know. I'm like suspicious of things that get to buzzword II. So I throw token curated registries in the same bucket.

Unknown Speaker  38:02  
I guess it will skip the next question.

Unknown Speaker  38:05  
Yeah, I mean, I'm an investor in crypto kitties. I do think that in the long term and FTS will be important. I think like today if you go and look at dap radar, there's not a lot of volume in you know, buying and selling you know, collectibles and NF T's but I do think that as they start getting hooked into video games, and that are the back ends for things like their potions and swords within video games. I think that's going to be the thing that pulls them up in the medium term. So overrated maybe today but underrated in the long term and eventually we'll get you know what people have always talked about blockchain real estate and so they'll take a while

Unknown Speaker  38:39  
What about stable coins?

Unknown Speaker  38:42  
Um, globally speaking, I'd say underrated. I still think people in a lot of people don't realize the extent to which stable coins solve one of one of people's biggest concerns with the with the cryptocurrency space, which he has that in order to use Apple to these applications, you have to expose themselves to volatility. And so with a stable coins, a lot of that goes away. And you can actually use applications that just look like regular applications involving dollars. And I'm also you know, very happy that very recently, it seems like there was this big outburst of kind of new stable coin companies coming along. Like there's their circles announcements, they are assuming like, true USD, there is like teeth in crypto DT over there. There's, I've seen I forget there's like a, you know, there's a bunch of them now, right? And that means like, first of all, it's nice to see it, there's more It's nice to see at these new ones are kind of more, you know, more reputable and audited and so forth than the ones that came before. And it's and I'm also very happy to see that you know, I can make or downwind is kind of doing well and continuing to prove itself and holding its value despite, you know, like overseeing eavesdropping and In price by more than 80%, I think it's still a very impressive accomplishment for a crypto back stable coin in this space to stay stable through that period. So and in the long run, you know this in these kinds of tokens are a way a kind of way for traditional financial systems to kind of upload themselves to crypto and if they want to,

Unknown Speaker  40:22  
yeah, I also, I would say stable coins are underrated today, for a couple reasons. But with that said, I distinguish between two kinds of stable coins at least, there's multiple kinds. But I'd say there's one class of stable coins that I'm somewhat bearish on. And those have considered the like Rube Goldberg machines, smart contract things that tried to manufacture a stable result out of a fundamentally unstable underlying digital currency, I would argue, and then by contrast, they're the ones which I'd call, let's say, audit, heavy tech, light stable coins. Were really what they're selling is trust, the trust that you can go and redeem it for good old fashioned US dollars or whatever, fiat currency underneath. And those are more bullish on because I think those are actually what people really want it with a stable coin is they want the trust of redemption, which means stable coins are more like an insurance business than like other kinds of crypto businesses, because it's a question of what is the risk that I won't be able to redeem something, if you can solve those problems. And if you can have a stable coin that people really trust, and that doesn't have redemption risk, then I think, in the medium term, we'll think of, you know, like, FinTech, before stable coin is like mobile before iPhone in the sense that every FinTech company, if you could just have a digital dollar, a blockchain based dollar, if you didn't need to do a banking partnership or something like that, you just go and program right away with a digital dollar based on the blockchain. And I think that's a really important medium term thing that could happen if we get to working in functional silicon.

Unknown Speaker  41:48  
I think one important points in favor of crypto back through back to a Rube Goldberg Machine stablecoins is that they're more likely to survive an unfriendly regulatory and banking environment.

Unknown Speaker  41:59  
Yes, sir. So that's a good question. And I think, if you're trying to fundamentally represent a US dollar, I think you can't, you know, avoid the question of interfacing with the US banking and regulatory system, it's kind of like this, if, if you had an app that got popular enough on Facebook's platform, eventually Facebook will knock on your door, right? And if you have something which is representing hundreds of billions of dollars, eventually, you know, there will be some Nexus to the US government and so on. It's just like, it's kind of inevitable. So that that's kind of a fundamental premise. And we could disagree on that.

Unknown Speaker  42:33  
Cut On that note, how do you how do you look at decentralized organizations overrated or underrated?

Unknown Speaker  42:40  
Um, I would probably say is somewhat overrated in the show, especially in the short term. And part of the reason I will say, this is definitely a change in opinion, I was kind of more idealistic about this subset of the space maybe three or four years ago. I think the problem is that like, first of all, if you try to create complete decentralized organization organizations, there's just game theoretic issues and misalignments in pretty much every kind of governance that you can come up with. But also, I think, a lot of the value of does that doesn't necessarily needs to come from kind of fully fledged, you know, like, decentralized corporate corporations in the sky running on the blockchain, it can come from incentive alignments run that come out of kind of smaller and more purpose specific gadgets. So the kind of da Ico that could that I came up with, at the end of last year is probably one example of that. I mean, things like assurance contracts, things like different kinds of public good fund, funding mechanisms, different kinds of, you know, a quadratic voting gadgets or whatever, I think, kind of more self contained, things like that, or where you can kind of see more kind of stable and realistic value in the short term.

Unknown Speaker  43:56  
Yeah, so I am I'm bullish on D O's, very bearish on da O's like, like, I don't believe in the autonomous aspect for a while. And why bullish on D O's? Well, I think, you know, we have more and more teams that are remote work based in multiple jurisdictions. And I think in the not too distant future, could incorporating or signing contracts on the Ethereum blockchain, or other blockchains like that smart contract based blockchains are going to is going to become pretty popular for remote teams. And you can imagine like a blockchain based slack or a blockchain DocuSign, a blocky sign that just allows these quote, decentralized organizations to agree on something vote and then allocate funds, you know, with a proof of stake vote or some other kind of vote, just even a multi SIG kind of vote. And I think that's kind of cool, where you don't necessarily need to take the entire dow concept, you know, you can take pieces of it and just be like, oh, here's how you know we get multi SIG, you know, for three people who live in three different countries under three different legal system. We don't have to have them incorporated in Delaware. We can have something on the blockchain. That's pretty lightweight. I think I'm bullish on that kind of thing.

Unknown Speaker  45:07  
We'll do like one last one on overrated. underrated off chain scaling. What are your thoughts on that?

Unknown Speaker  45:13  
So I'm actually, you know, I really believe off chain is very underrated in the sense of for most applications, unless you're unless you're batalik unless you're Zuko, unless you're somebody who's a cryptographer, or, you know, a very, you know, knows systems programming and so on. Most people aren't gonna be able to do that. And instead, they should keep most of their state in a normal Postgres database, and have blockchain functionality, right. So you know, blockchain, like the blockchain will provide balances or provide addresses, your users can send or receive funds. And you can keep your images and your normal user data or whatever and Postgres like a normal kind of thing. And so then your app has two data stores, it's got Postgres, and it's got, you know, the blockchain, you know, over here. And I think that kind of model is going to be like a pretty important one, a hybrid model. And moreover, anything that you can do off chain, you should do off chain, because the, you know, block chains are relatively low capacity, right? Now, you want to batch transactions, you don't want to pay fees, you want to try to do as much as you can off chain, and then just write the absolute minimal digest on chain. So I think that's going to be a bigger and bigger thing. One thing I wrote about two years ago, that I'd love to see, maybe somebody here can hack it tonight, is something similar to post GIS, right. So post GIS is basically a set of add ons for Postgres, that adds, you know, range queries x, y, you know, latitude longitude support to Postgres, which is normally just a standard relational database, I'd love to see a post chain that does the same kind of thing, but adds blockchain functionality. So it makes it easy to ingest a blockchain, do relational queries, you know, to search and sort blockchain based data structures, and an add on like that. And that's the kind of thing I think would help a lot where you're doing a lot of stuff off chain, and then you have a digest that is written to the blockchain, and it cost you something I think that's going to be an important paradigm.

Unknown Speaker  47:07  
We'll move on to sort of the next couple of questions we've gotten and batalik. What role has threshold relay are and other improvements from the definity ecosystem and played into the design of aetherium 2.0.

Unknown Speaker  47:20  
So we're not using threshold relays, specifically, in both in both because we prefer we prefer being a leaner on crypto on cryptographic assumptions. And also, because it's well, because we look at just to kind of dial back a bit right? Well, threshold really is is this kind of inbox? Well, it's two things. One is it's a consensus algorithm into what's a in blockchain random number generator. And it relies pretty heavily on kind of BLS signatures and distributed key generation. And I personally dislike distributed key generation because of this, like big extra load of cruft that you have to add into the, into the protocol spec somewhere. And we're taking a somewhat different approach where we, where we use BLS signature aggregation, which also uses BLS signatures and also gets kind of very high efficiencies from combining signatures together in the same way a threshold relay does. But we use this in combination with a different kind of proof of stake algorithm that uses a ghost based fortress rule. And that says, nice, B and B. And the goal that we're targeting is actually we do not want the security of the blockchain to be fully dependent on the security of a random number generator algorithm, right? Like, we want to be able to prove that the watching is secure, even if the attacker chooses what all the random numbers are. And surprisingly enough, you know, with you now have a blockchain algorithm where you have enough validators participating at the same time, you can actually do that, then for a random number generator, and oh, we have Justin's entire line into vdf research. And while that's technically not necessary for the blockchain to work, that does kind of increase the security margin of the system. So it decreases the minimum safe committee size for example, by maybe a factor of two or three in practice, and it increases the safety tolerances by a few percent and at the same time a random numbers are something that's useful to a wide array of layer two applications and so that he like we are you building Iran's a beacon chain, but we are using the verifiable delay functions instead of your five random function. So it's somewhat different technology

Unknown Speaker  49:42  
Balaji a question for you from the audience.

Unknown Speaker  49:45  
What geographies will we first see a mass adoption in terms of a use case for cryptocurrencies and and sort of why is that the case? Or will that be the case?

Unknown Speaker  49:54  
That's great question. Um, you know, there's there is a thesis that it's going to be like the Venezuela As of the world and so on where cryptocurrency has mass adoption, I'm actually, you know, as sympathetic as I am to, you know, to the Venezuelan people. And as much as I do believe that that does illustrate an important use case for Bitcoin. I do think that cryptocurrency is probably going to have to prove itself to the developed world first, and then it will filter out to everywhere else. And the reason for that is any technology in the early stages has bugs and horrible UX and various shortcomings, but only relatively wealthy people who have the time and the energy and don't have a chaotic situation around them. And they have good internet and they can download a multi gigabyte blockchain and they don't have a light wallet, all the types of only folks who have all of that, you know, time and internet, I think are going to get this thing off the ground, and then eventually get it to hundreds of millions and and get to billions. And I think it'll have a similar emergence mode to smartphones, where the developed world subsidize them, and got them to scale. And then they were cheap enough for the developing world to buy into them. So I'm a huge long term bull on like banking, the unbanked with crypto and so on. I do believe that eventually does happen. I just don't think that's where it starts.

Unknown Speaker  51:10  
Yeah, and I probably generally agree, I'd say while we're in the enthusiast phase, that'll continue to be the case that the map of where the blockchain nodes are will roughly track the map of where the brightest night lights are, if you will, if you look at the earth, the Earth from space, but in the long term, I definitely do. I also agree that like banking, the unbanked kind of improving financial systems, in cases where kind of inner cross national kind of cooperation is currently weakest and where existing governance structures are weakest and most hostile is one of the is one of the most interesting areas where they can be applied as well.

Unknown Speaker  51:52  
So they just have time, we'll just ask two more questions. One, just to kind of come back to something that was said earlier, Coinbase is involved with great crypto org. And the theorem foundation is in love with a grant program. How can others get involved with these initiatives?

Unknown Speaker  52:08  
Yeah, so we have a charitable arm called gift crypto.org. So, you know, give kryptos just felt like that, that, you know, Brian set up, and, you know, that does charitable work in the space.

Unknown Speaker  52:22  
Um, so for the theorem, Foundation grant program, I mean, there's still ways to participate, right? One is to apply for a grant. And the other is if you have a lot of money, then you yourself can just become the grants giving body and you can either decide whom to give grants to yourself, or you can kind of piggyback onto the etherion Foundation gives money yourself, because those of us are completely public. So in either in either of those two was highly welcome. And you know, we're on the project side, we're actively looking for projects. So doing work in scalability, particularly usability, including what I call usability of security, for you know, and that includes both the wallet and the head of smart contract programming side. Including and not things are formally verification and includes kind of it includes a layer two systems for pretty much every kind. So it's, if your wants to build a piece of aetherium ecosystem, the opportunity and kind of do with that as a full time thing, the opportunity is there for you.

Unknown Speaker  53:24  
And lastly, Balaji already answered what he would like to hack on potentially this weekend, what would you make if you were a hacker at this event?

Unknown Speaker  53:34  
Well, FOMO 3d was pretty awesome. So, you know, something like that, I think really is, you know, it just is something you could only do on the blockchain, you know, so I'd love to see stuff like that, which I think push the limits of what you can do with smart contracts. And, you know, I'd love to see something like post chain would just talk, I think that'd be very useful. Um, and, yeah, I mean, those two in particular thing would be cool.

Unknown Speaker  54:04  
Reputation systems are probably still kind of an interesting area that we probably haven't been there was a bit of a lot of enthusiasm and back in 2014, but then it kind of petered off and I think it we might be at the points where the different structure is there to kind of make another go at that whole area. I would also say kind of, in a privacy preserving applications or are in general are an interesting category. Um, anything kind of developed any kind of developer middleware, kind of, in particularly kind of more possibly decentralized alternatives to existing or more centralized forms of middleware solutions in wallets and kind of and securities solutions in other important area like basically a What like it also in general, just look at kind of what you think are pain points that are seen by developers in the ecosystem and try to have a go at solving any of them.

Unknown Speaker  55:11  
Perfect. Well Balaji vitalik thank you so much for taking the time to share your views with us tonight and

Unknown Speaker  55:17  
hold them back.

Transcribed by https://otter.ai
