Unknown Speaker  0:05  
Alright guys, bang, bang, I have Balaji here with me. Thank you so much for doing this. I'm super excited to talk to you.

Unknown Speaker  0:12  
Cool, good to be here, for sure.

Unknown Speaker  0:15  
For those that don't know who you are, you've got a lot of relevant experience. And I know that you are not a fan of credentialism but they just give us a couple of data points just on your background and training so that people can understand the perspective you're coming from.

Unknown Speaker  0:32  
Sure. So my background on you know, Stanford PhD in electrical engineering also have an MS in chemical engineering, I taught computer science and stats Stanford for several years, started a genomics company, which ended over CTO and co founder that ended up being sold for 375 million. I was angel investor in Soylent superhuman lambda school cameo, Bitcoin, early in aetherium, z cash, other kinds of things. Also, it was a venture capitalist, interesting harlots, multibillion dollar venture capital firm, helped boot up what became parts of our bio and crypto funds.

Unknown Speaker  1:15  
I

Unknown Speaker  1:17  
taught a MOOC course with 250,000 students worldwide back in 2013. So you know, been an educator as well. And then within crypto, I've done a bunch of stuff. I'm an investor in lots of crypto companies and coins and whatever. But most recently, I took over one of our portfolio companies long story, which I wrote about, turn that around, turn into earn calm, got that to profitability. So let's Coinbase was CTO of Coinbase. While at Coinbase, did a bunch of stuff. But in particular, you know, when a few headlines to earn and integrate into Coinbase, Coinbase earn, which has done several hundred million dollars in sales, from 2018 2019, you can it's on the homepage of Coinbase if you if you tried it right, so and helped launch usdc, our stable coin, which has done very well drove all the acid addition and so on there, oh, this is obviously with a team of folks and whatnot, brought on billions of dollars in assets for custody, and basically just did a bunch of stuff there. And then since last June, I finally taken the first time off that I've had in more than 10 years or whatever. And because that you know, I can't, like I'm not wired like a normal person to take a vacation. Just because there's you're either doing something or you're not doing it. And if you're not doing it, it's much easier than you don't have, it's like a homework assignment or whatever, when you're a kid and you have something due on a Christmas break. And you know, so I can never take like a normal vacation. But I took time off for seven a long time. And basically just, you know, did math, I do math and I program and I Angel invest and whatnot. And that brings us to the present day. You know, and and I can take from here, for sure.

Unknown Speaker  3:08  
Before we get into the fun stuff. What's the biggest surprise or learning you've had from taking time off with the thing you didn't expect to walk away with or learn during that time?

Unknown Speaker  3:20  
Um, I think I was surprised at how easy it is to like, like a time passes fast actually, um, you wouldn't kind of think that. So yeah, just it's it's not it's not like a learning or anything like that. But rather, unless you go after things with the same discipline that you have, when you're an operating executive, it's easy to just lose a week, lose two weeks or whatever, which is fine. You don't always have to be super efficient on everything. But that was just something which I hadn't had time off in such a long time that I hadn't realized that.

Unknown Speaker  4:03  
Yeah, that's awesome. You were one of very few early on that identified the potential issues with the Coronavirus. And we're quite vocal about hey, this is serious. This may come here, here's potential implications. And, you know, frankly, we all now know many people, one laughed to literally disagreed publicly, there was articles written kind of the whole nine yards, you've been vindicated. Kind of in a weird way of nobody wanted this to happen. But but at the same time, you were able to, to kind of warn people, if you will, what is your evaluation as we sit here, kind of mid May of just what's transpired, right we have to go in tons of detail. You know, people obviously know a lot of this but but just kind of what's your general evaluation of that health crisis.

Unknown Speaker  4:54  
So you know, I've tweeted some of this and I'm writing a bunch of long form stuff which I will which I will drop At some point, but Act One was an is the virus crisis, which is ongoing. Act Two is the financial crash and act three, I think is a crisis of our institutions. And I really think that we are in for some crazy stuff. And I, you know, I think I called some of these aspects actually pretty early on, but I think the new political axis, or you know, whether you want to call it trade off axis, or what have you will worldwide is on, you know, antivirus and pro freedom. Okay, so those are like, kind of like the two polls, you might call it, the total state versus market anarchy, okay. And the so what's, what's kind of going on here, so we're in the middle of this huge political realignment, where old issues just don't matter as much. And things are rotating and new Coalition's are forming unit, there's some old party labels or things like that. And I think you can identify those two camps as centralization versus decentralization, as modern monetary theory versus BTC. As you know, the, the the state versus the network, as, you know, kind of mandatory versus free. And, you know, health versus wealth, okay. So it's actually interesting to think of those as kind of obstacles in the sense that the state is, you know, the actor that is now pushing quarantines, and it's, you know, it's enforcing, stay at home orders, you know, masks being mandatory, all that type of stuff. And there's a genuine argument for it in the sense that, um, you know, many, many predispositions or presuppositions rather, that people have about, okay, you know, my neighbor can do their thing, and it doesn't matter, so long as it doesn't affect me completely break down in a Coronavirus world where if your neighbor is not taking precautions, you very well could get sick. And so you have an interest in their health in a way that you just didn't before, in a sense, arguably, that's good, because, you know, okay, well, I have an interest in their health, I will help them stay healthier, and keep myself healthier at the same time, there's, you can make an argument from a skin in the game or alignment standpoint, that, you know, community, people who care about each other's health will probably be better than just like, you know, you're part of a fitness club, or whatever, you know, and, and, you know, people live together, and that's actually good, right. Um, so, but let's call this one access, right, the total state, and that's, you know, the lockdown of Wu Han, that is the, you know, surveillance of folks who, you know, with yellow and green and red codes, not just in China, but other places, that's price controls, etc. Okay. Now, on the other side, is market anarchy. And this is essentially the polar opposite of that. And this is a to caricature in extremists. It is, you know, don't wear a mask, but or I should have the choice as to whether to wear a mask, it is, you know, like, the laws are necessarily bad, everything the state is doing is wrong, etc. And, you know, and but the good aspect of it is, look, we're going to need to decentralize, we're going to need to encrypt, we're going to need to protect privacy, and we're going to need to have a free market because the state may protect health, at the expense of wealth to such an extent that folks are giving silly orders, you know, to seize masks sees hand sanitizer to impose price controls to ban people from selling things at Walmart and Target to stop Uber Eats from doing things, you know, is was boring, even proposed, like banning m&a, or whatever, over a certain size, those things have nothing to do with controlling the virus whatsoever. And they're things and of course, printing trillions of dollars, right? Um, and so there's legitimate abuses and failures on the side of the total state that the kind of anarchy poll will correct and push against. And I think either of these two polls is probably bad. But what's in that probably is bad. What's interesting is, how many different permutations and so on there are in the center, it's like a very,

Unknown Speaker  9:35  
you know, there's, there's a number of different combinations and things you can do, okay. And I'll give some of them. So, um, lots of many different countries, it's almost like the ideologies that they had almost didn't matter and now they've just executed in totally different ways. For example, Sweden and New Zealand you would have clustered them together ideologically before this. They've taken polar opposite policies, you know, where Sweden has basically taken the let it rip policy and New Zealand has controlled the virus on, you know, the US and Australia, you might have clustered them and Australia is contained the virus in the US is, you know, not right. But then even more than that, you know, to give some sense of where society ends up, you could have a Chinese authoritarian state, you could have a Taiwanese democratic state that didn't even have a lockdown, but has managed to mostly keep the virus under control, or actually not mostly, seemingly totally on you could have, you know, a New Zealand policy, which is democratic, but also did a lockdown and got the virus under control. You could have Sweden's policy which had no lockdown and is letting the virus go crazy. Or you could have America's policy, which is kind of a cargo cult half, half ass lockdown. And then combined with letting the virus go around. So it's like at least five different combinations, you know, Taiwan, China, New Zealand, the US and Sweden. And then there's a sixth, which I think is emerging in the US, which is the Snow Crash strategy. And I think this is actually where the US is probably going to land up, where some combination of Snow Crash and Ready Player One, the state has failed. It is actually not capable of doing the blocking and tackling. If it had any, you know, tricks up its sleeve, we would have seen them already at this point, right? Um, there's no crack military unit. There's no, you know, special forces or, you know, super vaccine, there's nothing like that there's no area 51 there's no Manhattan Project, no one's coming to save us on. And so once you realize that, that's actually it's something where it's completely the opposite of the movies, you know, in contagion, or in, you know, any movie, you know, that there's a I mean, that's the biggest thing that contagion, the movie got wrong with the CDC was going to be competent, right? And not saying the CDC is completely incompetent, that they have done some things right, you know, some of the studies they've done are fine. But they're not actually able to control the disease and the Center for Disease Control, right. So where I think we land up is some combination. And I'm not endorsing this, by the way. But I think, you know, there's a few possible scenarios where the US lands up, on so one is, and these are not mutually exclusive, but let's call it Snow Crash Ready Player One, and then someone else actually said, Asimov's like naked son, or the scenario is all snow run, right? But let me go through these. So Snow Crash would basically be on where the state can't protect people. You know, for example, Amazon is doing like mass testing the volts employees, it's developing all these technologies to essentially turn Amazon's campus into a green zone. And potentially that becomes an export, where they can export that to other corporate campuses and other communities on you know, it's like the natural extension of ring and some of their products that they sell right? on where you, you basically keep the virus out with multiple layers of defense, everything, you know, the most extreme would be like negative pressure heirlooms, but hand sanitizer, gloves, all that type of stuff, then, you know, so basically, what that is, is a corporate, individual and community imposed order that controls a virus and keeps it out out of your campus. But you know, the commons are a tragedy. Okay. Then second is Ready Player One, where there's proposal serious proposals to print $2,000 a month for everybody, if you've seen that, right. And if that proposal goes through, and I think it might, you have a scenario where everybody is sitting at home, and they're receiving $2,000 a month, and that's money, which See, the thing is, I think we're gonna see both deflation and inflation, deflation in the price of all the things that people don't want anymore. Like, like, you know, air travel, or Well, actually, air travel is tricky. I'll come back to that, let's say concerts, events, things of that nature, right, people will slash prices to try to bring folks in. But then you'll get price inflation and things people do want, like masks, hand sanitizer, other type of things, right.

Unknown Speaker  14:16  
And

Unknown Speaker  14:18  
once you get soaring prices, here's where the crypto stuff comes in, or one of the many angles um, you have soaring prices for masks for hand sanitizer, and, you know, pulse oximeters, all that type of stuff to deal with the disease as well as for things like food consumer staples, because you've suddenly injected a huge amount of printed money and capacity supply is usually flat or down because people are staying at home because supply chains have been disrupted because folks overseas aren't shipping as much stuff and so on. So you have like much more money and flat or down supply. Well, and and you know, you have demand right prices are gonna increase which we've seen, you know, for masks and hand sanitizer. So then once you have prices soar, many states will impose price controls, which will cause shortages. And, or they will prevent the sale of some of these things. And eBay and other places have actually already prevented the sale, I believe of masks and hand sanitizer. And again, I'm using as a placeholder for a lot of other things that people would buy. At which point, markets go dark. And you start to get the crypto economy, you know, things like open bazaar and so on become important. Because you can't buy the stuff on an above ground market, like a mask or whatever is like hard to hard to buy, and then you find mask on and you know, you can make the argument like people shouldn't be able to buy those masks, you only buy surgical masks or whatever I understand, right. But the demand will be there that people will want to buy those things, and they'll want to buy food, and they'll want to buy consumer staples and whatnot. And so, you know, essentially, this printed money that they get will be I think useful for three things. You know, one, maybe it'll pay the rent, maybe there'll be some price control imposed on the rent or something like that. On to, maybe it'll buy food, and three, it'll pay for internet stuff, which is probably the most, um, you know, like, something like Dropbox is probably going to have the least problem, when you know, there's if there's significant inflation, because their margins or gross margins are so high that the marginal cost of delivering another Dropbox thing to somebody is not not that high, right. Um, but then you have this Ready Player, one world where people are basically staying home and being paid to play video games, or just surf the internet, right, and they just don't go out. But consumption is dropped off a cliff on and then third model is this naked sun model where, you know, folks go out to rural areas, and work remote from there, and they kind of have a natural social distancing built into it. And, you know, they just socialize over the internet for the most part other than being with, you know, like, obviously, they're probably with family members, maybe there's some friends who move out there. But it's like, more like a rural life, like a lot of people used to live in the 1800s. In the US, you know, you just relatively low population density. And you, you know, maybe you put on your VR headset, or you, you otherwise connect that way, but you have just, you know, greenery and so on around kind of a beautiful landscape. Right? Um, so I'm not saying all of those, I mean, those are not mutually exclusive, all of those could happen at the same time on. But we start to get a future that in the US, it looks very different than what is happening in green zones that have managed to keep the virus under control. Well, let me let me pause here, because I, that was a long kind of burst, but I want you to get an Oregon God, you

Unknown Speaker  17:43  
know, I think keep going. The big thing that I would just, if you can clarify. I think part of what you're talking about is like a decentralized response, and then the state response, right? And those two things are somewhat counterbalance to each other. But it's not also I don't believe you think that it's a complete blanket in even a country, right. So right now, I think most people would say, hey, the East has been very, very good from a centralized standpoint. And part of that is because the population buys into those centralized governments. Here in the West, there's a little bit less of that kind of buy in. And so people are maybe somewhat wary, and also kind of have this democratic view of like, the government is one voice. But we also have a voice. And so that has been somewhat of a more decentralized response. I've seen you talk a lot though, like, it isn't just country by country, you actually may get a break down even further than that. Yeah. At the state County, maybe even the city level. So kind of keep going on that thread. But but just totally

Unknown Speaker  18:41  
Yeah, sure. Sure. addresses once. Yeah, so one very important high level thing I think, is, so two important things. In my personal preference, stack rank, and other people may differ on this, but at least I think I am consistent. You know, or, or what I say is consistent given this implicit value set, right? Which is, or not even implicit, I've been very explicit about it, which is I would rank on like a competent centralized state like Singapore, I think that delivers the best quality of life. I know Singapore is trying to get, you know, Corona under control and so on. But a Singapore, Taiwan, South Korea, and now discuss my second point A New Zealand and Australia, right, they have managed to get the virus in control. So it appears so Slovakia. I think Estonia has I think Israel has, right? These are places which, um, you know, I think we'll provide those are like that. That's the best answer like a competent centralized state for something like this. Then a distant second is the decentralized response Snow Crash response, where in the absence of a competent centralized state, if you have an incompetent or even worse, a malicious state, the decentralized response at least allows you your community, your company to get together, right. If you ever had hapless government what what's happened is the government is now by not doing a good job of keeping the commons free of this virus. It's like a tax on every transaction that's happening. It's basically like an out of control fire that's burning, because the fire department can't put it out. Because the CDC can't control disease because the FDA hasn't approved tests, we have this viral fire burning that has imposed a tax on every transaction. Right? Okay, so at least allow individuals to put out the fire in their own little zones. That's a decentralized response. And then the worst is like the incompetent or malicious and, you know, you can always argue which which is which, but do you think there's a distinction, you know, malicious is like, you know, North Korea, right, or something like that. And, you know, incompetent is simply just much of much of the US, unfortunately, right. And, frankly, the UK, France, Italy, Spain, even Germany, right. Um, basically, Western Europe, the US and Canada, have actually had some of the worst responses to this, which I can get into. And, and so when you've got an incompetent, centralized state, they're doing things like infinite lockdown with no plan, right? Um, and that's not, that's, that's also that's stupid, right? Like, one way of thinking about it is, every country that is doing lockdown, whether they admit it or not, is copying China. Because China did it first and was like, Oh, my God, I can't believe they're doing this. And you know, at first, there's a lot of Oh, they would only do this an autocratic, and, you know, crazy society, etc. Then, people basically ignored the virus while it was spreading through China, and then Iran, it was only when it hit Italy, that that actually people are like, wow, you know, like, it could actually hit here, not in a third world country. And I'll come back to that point. By the way, China is not a third world country. That's why I think one of the biggest issues that people, you know, in the US, especially, I think, on the East Coast, have had is they still have a time warp model of China from like, the 70s. as, you know, primitive country, your own only happen over there, you know, blah, blah, blah. And it's simply not right. It's very sophisticated place in many ways. And I'm not saying it's all good, but I'm just saying to appreciate that. Um, anyway, once it hit Italy, and Italy went into lockdown, then in mid March, the US copied Italy. And so you're copying a copy without admitting you're copying. And whenever that happens, I mean, you'd be not being you. You're in tech, right? Like as a product manager. If you're copying a feature from another company without admitting you're copying that feature. You get like a Zune kind of experience, remember the Zune versus the iPod, right? Or you get, like, just, I mean, early bing, bing is actually okay today, but like Bing versus Google, you're just just having an ersatz, you know, version of the same, right. And, you know, one mental model is you have this

Unknown Speaker  23:07  
you have

Unknown Speaker  23:08  
this very agile state, you know, that is able to execute this kind of lockdown. And then you have this lumbering American, you know, or Westerner who tries to follow the same gymnastics and simply can't do it. Right. And so it might, you know, when you're talking about, like, how the Chinese executed lockdown, or how, you know, it's been executed in other places, um, it's not just Oh, everybody go stay at home. It's like 100 things they were doing, for example, you know, centralized quarantine, right? They set up these field hospitals. But you know, they built these things in, you know, 10 days in the hospital they built in 10 days, wasn't like the thing in the Javits Center. It was a hospital that had negative pressure rooms. I mean, the Javits Center, I mean, look, it's fine that they built it, I'm not taking anything away from it. But the licensure in hospital, those built in China, had negative pressure rooms, it had telemedicine for doctors to come in remotely. It had drone delivery bots on and it was basically set up so that you could remote operate the hospital and the patients weren't, you know, exposing like doctors to the virus because health care workers were dying over there, right. Um, you know, it was it was stuff like, you know, drones with thermal imaging cameras, it's stuff like, um, you know, mobile CT scanners that are very high throughput that can scan a bunch of folks. It's simply a technological feat, where all the levers of both technology and policy were applied at the same time, I wrote a blog post on this, by the way, you know, tweeted it, like, you know, piece of it was in a Chinese government's guide to containing the viruses like in V seven. And, again, to be clear, I'm not saying you know, oh, China is good and moral or anything like that. I am saying that insofar as your content copying a copy, you should at least understand what it is you're copying and what is you're doing. And what happened was in in China, the lockdown was executed. I tweeted about this. Also, you can see my tweets in March on this. But in China, the lockdown was a top down thing that was executed by the technocrats running the Chinese state. You know, in the US, lockdown was like, a bottom up cry from Twitter, you know, from like, all these academics or engineers or whatever, like Thomas polio, like, you know, he wrote a great article like this hammer and dance is like a random guy, right? And it's fine. He's smart, right? Like, I'm, like, I'm glad you wrote the article, and so on. But this is something where it's rear wheel drive, the smart people are not in our present state. You know, these people literally can't divide. You know, like, I don't know, if you saw that, that thing where, you know, like, everyone blue, Bloomberg could give everybody a million dollars to do so. It's true. And Brian Williams nods at this, right. Like, like, you know, and obviously our, you know, whether it's the mayor, or the governor or the president, like these, these folks are not like do not do a great job, right.

Unknown Speaker  26:13  
And so,

Unknown Speaker  26:15  
you have something where

Unknown Speaker  26:18  
it's not just the idea, its execution, right. And the idea is, oh, have people see at home and then execute all these complicated series of steps to control the virus?

Unknown Speaker  26:27  
Well,

Unknown Speaker  26:28  
you know, we, we simply don't have the talent in our state to do that. On and so. So that's a huge divergence and branch point, especially relative to the past. Because, you know, 1950 1968, you know, the US did Apollo, right? Within living memory, basically, about 52 years ago, right? The US was number one, right? It could do things that nobody else could do, it was the best at coordinating huge projects, right, it could bring men material, everything together to get things done. Right. Um, and what's happened is that the state capacity of the US since since basically the, you know, like, Apollo project has just fallen off a cliff,

Unknown Speaker  27:11  
and

Unknown Speaker  27:14  
the state capacity of China, and actually India and other countries has risen over that period. And now there's like a crossing point, right? You know, there's no way that China in 1968 would have out executed American 1868. But China 2020 is out executed America 2020, as has, frankly, Taiwan, and New Zealand, and Australia, and Slovakia and Vietnam, and, and, and all these other countries is a website called and coronavirus.org front slash countries that goes into this, right. Um, and so like, it's really important to, to recognize that in the same way that it was important for, for example, Steve bomber, to understand that Google had executed them before you can actually, you know, that Apple it out executed them, right. Like, you know, he was famously in denial about this for a long time, you know, um, and there'd be this sort of corporate nationalism, you know, that happened in Microsoft, where he would say, Oh, you know, I tell my kids, you don't, you don't use an iPhone, and you don't use Google. And it's a great way of basically blinding yourself to what's happening in the rest of, you know, the industry. Again, not saying that you copy it directly. And naively, I am saying that you understand when someone's ahead of you, and what they're doing and and you if you decide to clone it, or you build something better, fine, but don't don't be in denial about it. Right. Um, another example of this tweeted was, you know, with yeltsin, you know, in the late 80s, came to the US, right, so this was around the time of the thawing of us and Russian relations right after towards the end of the Cold War. And yeltsin came and he visited, and he saw, like a NASA control panel or whatever, right. And, you know, he was like, uh, we've got rockets in in the Soviet Union as well. Not a big deal, but I've read, but you know, what he was really impressed by

Unknown Speaker  29:13  
was that

Unknown Speaker  29:14  
it was, there was a random stop that they made on the trip home to a supermarket. And when he saw like this brambles supermarket, okay, randles was just named the chain on he was austrac is a famous photo of him, like just holding up his hands and dismay. And basically, he's like, because the thing is that an American supermarket had so much plenty relative to the drab Russian supermarkets. And at first he thought this was some special showroom supermarket and a fake one that you know, he'd been brought to because that's the Soviet Union did a fake everything, right? It's like, you know, this is fake or whatever. And then once he realized it was real He realized that even the leaders of the Soviet Union of which he was one, right, he was a very exceptional person who was allowed during the time of the USSR to travel abroad, not just anywhere but to America. Right. So even the leaders of the Soviet Union had fallen for their own propaganda about how, you know, the capitalist West was, was behind and so on and so forth. And the leaders of the Soviet Union didn't have the quality of the market experience that a random working person in Texas would have had, right. And so he said, you know, look, if people at home knew about the Serbia revolution, right, and so, you know, this is something where it's so, so, so important to not have excessively nationalistic or corporate nationalism, or whatever nationalist blinders on. Um, you know, I'll get a third example. Just the Meiji revolution was, I do not. Okay, so that's how Japan modernized in the mid 1800s. You know, they'd been an isolated society for a long time. And to shorten a longer story, in the mid 1800s, they came into contact with, you know, the West, right. And, you know, these boats arrived and opened up Japan as a market. And so it's famous kind of story.

Unknown Speaker  31:16  
And the Japanese

Unknown Speaker  31:17  
realize they were behind, you know, they had been isolated for so long. And, you know, here were these Westerners with all of this technology that, you know, was like, the level of magic almost like, like, UFO landing level level thing, right? But they were very pragmatic and very smart. And they said, Look, we're going to we are going to change our national slogans, right? And, you know, gosh, I'm going to find the term for this.

Unknown Speaker  31:47  
Or there's a there is a yes.

Unknown Speaker  31:51  
They, they changed the slogan.

Unknown Speaker  31:57  
So it was the new slogan was enrich the country, strengthen the military.

Unknown Speaker  32:03  
But the whole I want to find you the,

Unknown Speaker  32:08  
they have different slogans for different areas. Um,

Unknown Speaker  32:16  
see if I can find it.

Unknown Speaker  32:21  
It was

Unknown Speaker  32:25  
it's sort of like a mission statement, but for the country, right. I think it was something like a expel the barbarians and revere the Emperor, right.

Unknown Speaker  32:39  
And

Unknown Speaker  32:41  
second,

Unknown Speaker  32:44  
and then

Unknown Speaker  32:46  
and then the new one was like, enrich, I'm probably butchering this, but the new one was, enrich the country strengthen military. So point being that going from expel the barbarians and revere the Emperor to you know, enrich the country strengthen the military. That's, that's actually very different. Right. The first is, um, you know, a slogan, which is about status, right? expel the barbarians revered the Emperor, right. And the second is a slogan, which is about growth, right, um, you know, enrich the country, you know, strengthen military. And that's a radical shift, actually. Right. It's a change in mission shape, and, and so on. And so Japan modernized, and they became, you know, that's why they, you know, they're the first you know, non white country to actually be a European power. That was actually a very big deal. The wrestle Japanese war in the early 19 hundred's, right, which is the first time that a non white country had beaten a white country, you know, European majority, or you want to call it in a war and it was a huge thing for like colonialism to it was one of the big things that helped colonized people realize they could win, right? And I, you know, like, that gets into all kinds of historical stuff. But my main main point on this was, whether it was Sathya, turning around Microsoft, whether it was yeltsin looking and seeing how behind Russia was, whether it was the Japanese going and doing the Meiji, you know, restoration on. This was something where folks who were smart realized they were behind and rather than get all outraged about someone pointing that out, they're like, okay, we're behind. How do we get ahead? Right. And this actually brings us to China, which is, you know, 1978 when Deng Xiaoping, you know, took over China, it was very difficult by the way for him to take over China. That's a whole story of most Americans. It's, it's actually kind of interesting to me. Um, you know, this, this is actually one of the more important things to know, like, how did China become rich? Right? How did India become rich, just like you'd read a Harvard Business School case, study on Netflix, right? or Amazon? How did these countries turn around? You read about how companies turn? How do you turn on a country? That's even harder? Right? Many, much harder. And I think there's a lot of lessons for Business and Management and so on, even if again, you know, like, I'm sure they'll do the comments on China's evil. Okay, got it. Right, fine. I may agree with you on many of these premises. I'm just like, you know, the Soviet Union was evil in many ways. And yet we can discuss it in a dispassionate way. That, you know, like, they did do Sputnik. Right. And that was something that helped put out the space race and so on. And so, you know, we can kind of separate those those two bits, right. Okay, coming back to Jane shopping for a second. Um, he also turned around the country. Right. So the fourth example of these turnarounds, right, so the turning around Microsoft, you know, Russia, at least partially turning themselves around. I mean, they had a horrible go of it in the 90s with the transition to capitalism. But former Soviet Union countries like Estonia did extremely well. Poland has done well and so and so on net, it's probably not probably it is a win. And certainly Japan did well. Okay. So how did how did Deng Xiaoping turn around China? Well, he had a few things which have become slogans now. Um, you know, the famous one, you know, Black Cat, white cat doesn't matter if, if it catches mice. Another one was, let some people get rich first, which basically said, Look, I know that we're going to go from everybody equally poor to some degree of quote, you know, income and wealth inequality. But that's okay. So long as you realize you'll get, you know, wealthier later. And these are very compact slogans, right? let some get rich first doesn't mean, you'll never get rich. It just says by injecting the word first, it's like, okay, fine, they go first, I'll go second, but it's fine, right. Um, later, there's another slogan that the Chinese have, which is the backwards will be beaten. Okay, that's very important. where, you know, there's a, there's a guy called scholars, I think, scholar stage on Twitter. I may be butchering that, but, um, he has a good article on this, but the backwards will be beaten, basically means

Unknown Speaker  37:10  
that, you know, China, you know, it's a proud country, and during, you know, the Opium Wars, and, you know, during the, how the Japanese invaded them during World War Two, you know, they were they were brought low, right, by folks outside with superior technology. And so, China itself has a balance between rationalism and nationalism. Right? So, and these are intention, okay. So, nationalism is, you know, like, be proud, China's best, you know, etc. and rationalism says, Hey, we may not be the best in something, what are we not the best, and let's learn about that. Those are intention. Okay. Um, and, you know, when you combine them, you have something where you can both advanced science and, you know, strengthen the military and the country, and so on and so forth. You know, another place that rationalism and nationalists are intention that you're actually very familiar with,

Unknown Speaker  38:05  
were

Unknown Speaker  38:06  
crypto

Unknown Speaker  38:08  
because every crypto tribe, there's the nationalism of boosting my coin, and there's the rationalism of the technology and the science, and the features of other coins that might be worth adopting, or thinking about or looking at, you know, obvious example being, let's say, privacy, right? You know, anybody in Bitcoin should know about z cash and zero knowledge. And that's, that's just important, right? That makes Bitcoin better, right? And if, if you're in the mode of, oh, everything's a ship coin, or whatever, you know, that's just excessive nationalism. Right? And not enough rationalism. Now, with that said, something I have learned over the last six, seven years is there's more value to nationalism than you might think, you know, because you can, and the, the tribalism of crypto is, in a sense, an extension of Mac versus PC. Or, you know, Emacs versus VI, there's something about it, where it's not just a technology, but a community, and it's a sunk cost. And there's something where a community gains value from expanding, because if you have a billion people using iOS, it's better for you as an iOS user, than if there's only a million people right? Which is kind of why this technology evangelism takes place on a I'm not saying it's like always that quote, self interested or whatever, but it's, it's I think it's one of the reasons right and that reaches its apotheosis or maybe not maybe its identity. Maybe there's there's more forums yet right? Um, with with crypto where there's a financial incentive to bring other people into your coin, etc, right. So that, that irrational nationalism is actually helpful to fight off. price drops right to say, this is the best, I don't care what it says on the screen, I don't care what you say going close, my ears never gonna sell etc. It's actually kind of good to have some of those folks in the community, but not too many. Because there's too many, then you can't improve or react to anything. You'll never admit flaws of any kind, right? So, uh, Alright, let me pause there because that's, that's a lot of history, a lot of stuff. Yep.

Unknown Speaker  40:26  
So I want to go back to the China thing in a second. But staying on this nationalism versus rationalism. It sounds like what you're saying is, if you have nationalism, without the rationalism, it's almost like everyone feels like, Hey, we're in this together. But we're all the poor people in China back in the day, right? Like that. There's no ability to actually improve or change or recognize what needs to be done. It's just we all bought into this blind belief.

Unknown Speaker  40:52  
Yeah, it gets even worse than that, though, because, um, it turns into

Unknown Speaker  41:00  
it, there's no growth,

Unknown Speaker  41:02  
right? The rationalism is what provides a growth, the nationalism provides a tribalism. And in the absence of any growth, people fight over a zero sum pie, because it doesn't just stay as nationalism, it becomes nationalist socialism, where, you know, right, like, like those tribes, you know, one way of putting it is, you know, you see this dynamic on Twitter, whatever ideology somebody may claim to have. On Twitter, it becomes Twitter ism, where the most extreme version of that ideology is selected for likes and clicks, and so on, and the folks who promulgate that are reinforcing that by other people's social reinforcement. And it just like, is this feedback loop that is kind of a radicalizing sort of thing, right? Um, you see this all the time, no matter what your ideology is, if it's, whether it's tolerance, well, you get ffu, right? Whether it's a non aggression principle, it ends in a few, right, these things? Well, that's interesting. Non aggression is a few. Now, of course, people say, Oh, well, that's just violence, whatever, but no, it actually means civilization as well. You know, like, you know, there's, there's a, the point of the non aggression principle is not to go around saying feud, everybody, the point is to maintain a civilized society. And, you know, like, it's, it's something where, like, civilization is good, even if people take it for granted. Right.

Unknown Speaker  42:24  
And

Unknown Speaker  42:26  
so, so,

Unknown Speaker  42:28  
oh, gosh, I lost my train of thought. Um,

Unknown Speaker  42:31  
so let's, let's keep going down that path of how does that apply to China? Which I think part of what you're pulling, okay, right, right.

Unknown Speaker  42:40  
Let me fish, remember. So the thing is that all these ideologies become Twitter ism. And Twitter ism becomes zero sum. Because once you have tribalistic, we managed to shoo off everybody show off all growth, Chef, anybody that wants to improve it, and so on, then you fight among other people for who is the most tolerant of them all? Who is the maximalist of the maxilla? You know, like this, this kind of stupid thing, right? Like in this in this very closed loop of people, where you try and find some flaw that this person had, and then just attack them. Right. You know, and, and that's actually the trap that, you know, China was certainly stuck in for many, many years, right? purge after purge, after purge, internal political rivalries, and so on and so forth. So so you get tribalism without the growth mentality. And then the flip side of it, is you can also have excessive rationalism, right? excessive rationalism, I think, is less pathological than excessive nationalism. But it basically results in you having, you know, a bunch of science, and a bunch of engineering and a bunch of cool stuff. But, uh, you know, somebody will come and take away all your toys. It's like, it's like in civilization, you know, your play the game?

Unknown Speaker  44:01  
Of course,

Unknown Speaker  44:02  
yeah, so civilization, the game.

Unknown Speaker  44:06  
If you put all your money into technology and commerce, and and nothing else, the guy next door with one spearmen can just come in and take all your stuff, right? So if you if you go excessively rationalist, you do not survive either. Right? So, so clearly, there's some kind of balance here. Um, and I think that that trade off is something that we're going to need to negotiate as a society because it's a real adaptation. And unfortunately, we're moving in the wrong direction on it, where people are becoming more irrationally nationalistic, just at a time when it's actually more important to be open minded.

Unknown Speaker  44:49  
So on this piece, I guess part of this is, is that balance, right? We talked about negotiating the balance, is that driven from the state level, or is that something that's more viable? Thumbs up and driven by the people, and who they elect into office and kind of the people actually end up controlling that, in some way.

Unknown Speaker  45:08  
It's all of the above. I mean, in the sense of, um,

Unknown Speaker  45:14  
you know, the state, just as one example,

Unknown Speaker  45:17  
right, World War Two, the, the state had women go off to war, and, or not to actually fight but to, like they were working in factories, and so on. And then afterwards, there was a new normal, and women were working more more frequently, right. So something where a centralized thing came in from above, changed behavior and preferences. And then even when that force was removed, there was still a permanent, delta. Right, there's still a change. So soon, we're top down and bottom up, like, you know, even when top down left bottom retained some imprint of the top down force, and then kind of went on its own right. Um, and so so I don't think it's, you know, it's just one example, like, you know, tariffs matter, right. Like, you know, the trade policy really matters, immigration policy matters. Those are things that are set, you know, somewhat top down, and who's to say someone, because, obviously, outcry matters, and so on, as well. But, uh, you know, those definitely influence was feasible, bottom up, right. So I wouldn't, I wouldn't be able to divide it necessarily, but what I would say is certainly, in, if you feel you're in a technology space, right on, it behooves you to look at every green zone that's out there, and understand what they're doing, right. And then also think through, okay, what's going to happen in red zones. And so just let me define terminology here, because I'm just using it for my twitter or whatever. But a green zone is basically a place that's gotten the virus under control. And in, you know, you can be more precise, and say it's a region with comprehensive testing, that has no new cases in let's say, you know, two weeks or four weeks, right, some time period. And the reason both those are important compre a region, so spatial region with comprehensive testing, so because if you're not testing, then I don't believe your green zone, right? And no new cases, meaning you have extended a streak, right, you're being just sampling, I'm gonna have you and you really have called a virus, right? Okay. And a red zone is everywhere else, right, both places without testing, because you don't know if viruses there and turn the place that have testing and kind of let it go vertical. So one of my theses is that green zones will actually in general, be able to sort of let up on the state will be there. But in general, they're going to have better health, better wealth, and less of a state presence. Okay? The reason being, because, um, you've sort of managed to keep society, like, like, wobbling on a new normal, right? Rather than just have a

Unknown Speaker  48:05  
crash,

Unknown Speaker  48:06  
right? conversely, in a red zone, I think you're going to get huge strain pressures on where you get a series of things where viral destruction leads to economic destruction leads to viral destruction leads to like that they actually, you know, stack on top of each other, right? So, for example, right? You have the serious virus, okay, then folks, you know, they do lockdown or, you know, a cargo cult lockdown. Okay, then they all get mad, understandably, because people are going bankrupt, and so on, they come out, and some of them, unfortunately are like, Oh, the viruses in the big deal, or, you know, just the flu, bro or whatever, right? Don't wear mass. Boom, that leads to another level of viral destruction. Right? Oh, actually. Yeah, I mean, I kill you. But it might significantly diminish lung function for the rest of your life, or for weeks or months. Who knows? Right? And who knows the percentage on that? Yeah, we don't have good morbidity stats, we have good mortality stats, or I should say, okay, mortality stats, like, we know, case fatality rate and, and so on. We don't yet know, like, what percentage of normal people, um, you know, have eight week convalescence his or her permanently decreased lung function, we don't know the long term effects of this thing. Right. So So folks who just rushed out there, Oh, actually, bam, they just walk right into this virus, which is going crazy, by the way in 50 states.

Unknown Speaker  49:26  
And then then that leads to

Unknown Speaker  49:28  
yet another pullback, where demand goes back into you know, like people go back at home and so on. And that leads to more unemployment and more unhappy people. And, and that kind of stuff stacks. Now you don't have the money to go and pay for, you know, like masks or hand sanitizer, so people get the virus more, you know, that, that type of stuff, right. So you can have a really negative feedback loop. Actually not a negative feedback loop. It's a positive feedback loop in the sense of amplifying it right.

Unknown Speaker  49:55  
On that leads to

Unknown Speaker  49:59  
more unrest Potentially,

Unknown Speaker  50:00  
um,

Unknown Speaker  50:02  
and, you know, so Iran actually had some civil unrest and whatnot. Right. Um, and I mean, the biggest thing is Americans should understand that it can happen here. I mean, it just is one example. Michigan, evidently arm Do you see this thing?

Unknown Speaker  50:18  
I did see it and I think that actually Michigan was real guns and I don't know if you saw Raleigh, North Carolina where I grew up, there was people who walked around with fake guns, they literally took like a piece of wood and made it look like a 50 caliber, they had an inner tube that they made look like an 84, you know, rocket launcher, and they were basically doing a play on Michigan was real, were pissed off, we're not going to go walk around with the 84 for real, but like, here's our almost social unrest display. It's just very interesting to see

Unknown Speaker  50:51  
that happening in multiple locations.

Unknown Speaker  50:54  
Exactly. And so I mean, look,

Unknown Speaker  51:00  
it's a,

Unknown Speaker  51:02  
this whole situation is bad on like a number of different levels. But it's a it's something where you're getting more sci fi movie almost every day, right?

Unknown Speaker  51:14  
And

Unknown Speaker  51:15  
the problem is that,

Unknown Speaker  51:20  
you know, there's at least two analogies for what the virus is doing. And let's talk about some of the crypto implications of it. One analogy is to analogize it to an invasion. Okay, so people have talked about this or like, Oh, is this a recession or depression? And that's because, um, you know, those are the things that come to mind as is this, like the 2008 crisis or not? Because everybody lived through that. It's a reference point, right. But I think that a better analogy, I mean, this is not fundamentally an economic event. It's not fundamentally a political event. It's, it's a biological event. It's a physical event, right? And it's like, imagine this thing floating in space, and then you project it down into the xy plane.

Unknown Speaker  52:02  
Okay. It's basically like, Red Dawn on Earth. Have you ever saw the movie? Yeah. You're sitting right there, look out the window. And also they're getting invaded people parachuting into the parking lot. Right? That's it. It's not a biological incident.

Unknown Speaker  52:17  
That's exactly I think it's so with a very, very important caveat it just because I know someone will will mistreat others. I'm not saying it's a bio weapon or anything like that. Okay, I'm not okay. It's a naturally occurring virus, probably, with everything we know. It's possible it could have escaped from the lab, or people have talked about that. I think that's a possibility. But, um, you know, like, there's no evidence indicates a bio weapon. Okay. With that said, the entire US military and NATO. We're basically imagino line job. That is, right. Yeah. So

Unknown Speaker  52:49  
good. Yep.

Unknown Speaker  52:51  
Well, so, you know, in France, after World War One, they're like, oh, we're gonna build a system of fortification. So the next time the Germans come with their trench warfare will be ready for them. And the Germans just completely invalidated. That where the Nazi blitzkrieg just went around, you know, and it was like a classic example of fighting the last war, and then the French just got defeated, right. Um, and, you know, the US military and NATO have been Mia in the pandemic, right. And by the way, you know, people say, Oh, you know, Asia had SARS. And they were ready. And we weren't, like, the US had an anthrax scare in 2001. Right, number one. Number two is, you know, there was a bola in 2014, right. And number three, there were actually written pandemic plans, like Bush had something on this look, that you know, DARPA's stuff, there's all this stuff that's written down, it's supposed to be like a bio defense program or whatever. It just, they can't execute on it, right? They're literally incapable of doing it. So the every rogue state, every terrorist, frankly, every state in the world has seen that, you know, all the defenses of the US, right? You know, you have the Atlantic and the Pacific, you have all these aircraft carriers, and nuclear missiles and so on all the soldiers, everything, basically just completely invalidated by the virus.

Unknown Speaker  54:10  
Well, here's one kind of analogy that I've thought through so that I don't know if you know this. I was in the army for six and a half years. And so Oh, really, okay. Relatively intimate with both the expertise and the incompetence that goes on within those. Just like any organization,

Unknown Speaker  54:25  
I'm not beating up on the military, but I'm just saying that just Yeah, go ahead. Yeah.

Unknown Speaker  54:28  
Well, so here here's one way to think about this right is one of the most successful ways to attack the US military over the last called decade or so has been actually to either use embedded soldiers. So like in Afghanistan, for example, us and Afghan soldiers go out on a mission all of a sudden the Afghan soldiers which are deemed friendly turn and shoot a US Right, right. Kind of a blue on blue type incident but yes, they have a different uniform, they're just around. The second would be something like a fort hood shooting where literally if somebody's in a unit unif radicalize radicalized shoots. Yep, it's been done if you go to with aircraft carrier where I think it was a general or Colonel or whatever, right,

Unknown Speaker  55:08  
so the virus extends that because you basically are capturing somebody and turning a soldier into a threat by basically.

Unknown Speaker  55:15  
Yeah. And so we saw this on and kind of steroids if earlier, just a couple of weeks ago, there was a, I'll call him the captain of the ship. I don't remember his exact Red Cross. Yeah, yeah, wrote the letter. He said, Look, I'm basically stuck on an aircraft carrier with a bunch of soldiers. And every single one of them is now a weapon against each other, because they're just infecting each other. And I don't have the tools to handle this. Right, basically, let me become not ready for war, let me actually cook, stabilize my ship so that I can protect my soldiers, and we can preserve our readiness in the future. And I think that that is something just people didn't understand people didn't think about, and when then when you see it happen, you're like, whew, that could decimate an entire military force, it could decimate a lot of different functions, our friendship,

Unknown Speaker  55:59  
a friendship aircraft carrier got taken down, right. Um, and, you know, like, basically, there's, there's a sense, I mean, you know, World War One started with cavalry. Do you know that right? Like, if you're an army guy, you know, more military history than I do, for sure. But, um, a lot of people don't know this. That's actually, you know, it started with horses and horse charges and ended with, you know, the first mechanized warfare, right? I have a feeling that, you know, COVID-19 may make the era of infantry and even human staffed, you know, boats and so on, go away. And it'll just all be a robot war. It's all drones, all drone ships, all drone, everything, and there won't be human staff. Go ahead.

Unknown Speaker  56:41  
Yeah. And I think part of this, this fits into the larger narrative, just like the virus has served as an accelerant, right? And honestly, you know, if you would talk to people a year ago and said, Hey, in the future, we can have more foot soldiers or more drones, right on the battlefield, mostly would say, hey, it's going to get more automated, it's going to get more kind of autonomous and All right, now, all of a sudden, it becomes Well, not only is that technology, one component of it, but we actually may be rendered not as effective if there's things like this out there, right. I mean, you know, any sort of military unit that spends lots of time together, that's like, the exact opposite thing you want to be doing for, you know, some sort of viral outbreak.

Unknown Speaker  57:16  
Exactly. That's right. And, and especially given, you know, a few things first is the mean, like, it's, it's actually a pretty serious virus for at least some fraction of healthy people. Okay, we don't know the exact percentage, but, you know, for example, I posted that thing with that 45 year old former football player, right? Or merrigan, The New York Times has written about her story, right? Um, you know, cat Gleason is not for a very fit. Alyssa chevensky, um, you know, Lauren Sugarman, like, these are folks who, you know, they've all tweeted about it, and what have you, there's plenty more who, you know, I can't even talk about, but I've, I've talked to a lot of COVID-19 patients, because, you know, in tech, you know, there's the saying, right, you look at your dashboards, and you talk to customers, right, there's a quantitative and the qualitative. And, and, you know, it's, people will often, I think, have a middle brow dismissal, of talking to customers or talking to patients, they Oh, that's anecdotal. That's, you know, n equals one, oh, you know, blah, blah. And what they don't understand is, every data collection starts, or not every many data collection efforts, start with a conversation like that, for example, you're looking at your dashboards, and you talk to a customer and they say, Oh, I wasn't able to log in, you're like, Oh, no, really. And then you go, and you instrument that and you find 10% of your customers can't log in on mobile Safari or whatever, right? And you're like, Oh, my God, you're just blind to that you were data blind, because you didn't have the metric. And you'd have the metric because you hadn't talked to customers, right? The analog of that today is folks are looking at lethality stats, case fatality rates, and they're seeing correctly and this is important 92% of deaths are for people over age 50. And 75% of hospitalizations are for people, you know, I've quoted those, you know, stats a lot, and it's important to know those things. But the wrong conclusion is okay, then that means, you know, I'm 30 so I've got nothing to worry about, right? Yeah, you may not die, right? That's true. But and so relative to death, everything is mild, okay? However, um, relative to a cup of coffee in person, you may not want to risk, you know, a 10 week sickness and permanently decreased lung function. Right. So, so like, it's where you set that bar. And the problem is people are comparing it to death and they're thinking, Oh, it's not a big deal. Of course, sharp, you know, a few things are a big deal. Relative death, right? Go ahead. You're gonna say,

Unknown Speaker  59:54  
Well, I

Unknown Speaker  59:55  
was just gonna ask so part of this, I think in the thing that I personally struggle with the most and I think other people that I talked with, there's this element of like, How accurate is the data? Right? And sure, they got the whole conversation with. I don't think it is a fair question or a fair expectation to have 100% accuracy in the data in the middle of kind of the Firestorm, right. It's kind of like, you're at war. And if you said to somebody, how many bullets you got left? Maybe somebody knows, but most people say, Well, I got less than I had when I started, right. And it kind of directionally. And so I think that for this, how

Unknown Speaker  1:00:31  
I can give you a good answer, I can give you my answer on that.

Unknown Speaker  1:00:34  
Okay, so I don't understand, like how important you think, like, exact accuracy versus directional x or extra accuracy is during this?

Unknown Speaker  1:00:43  
Yeah. So So, um, I mean, it does depend, you know, if you're talking about the dosing of a drug, sometimes, you know, like, it actually can be sensitive, right. But, um, yeah, in general, I, you know, I think directional is the way to go because we're in kind of fog of war kind of situation. With that said, there's some very high signal events, right. Whoo, hon, happened. Italy happened NYC happened, right? Like, these are well documented. You know, they're like, basically, you know, in late January, early February, when I was fighting off the first just the flu, folks, right, I would basically make the following point, which was December 1, whoo, Han was normal city. By January 23, um, hospitals were overflowing. And the city was shut down by the Chinese government, like, you know, you had, like, a, you basically had thing brought to a halt. Right. Like the sickness brought the city to a halt. That's not like a flu situation. Right? And the same thing was that 33 days?

Unknown Speaker  1:01:45  
Yeah, exactly. 53

Unknown Speaker  1:01:46  
is less than two months, you had a city basically brought to its knees. Right? And, um, you know, that is that was that's not it? That is simply I mean, every every single person in that city, you there have been the flu coming through before, right. So the flu thing,

Unknown Speaker  1:02:03  
by the way, is,

Unknown Speaker  1:02:05  
it's one of these mind viruses that I think will end up killing, or what it does is it increases the number of people killed by Corona, because it disables the behavioral immune system. It's kind of like, you know, this thing has a stealth mode to it. Where, because the symptoms it produces are variable. Not everybody melts down in a pool of blood, like Ebola, right? Like, Ebola, everyone's like, okay, that's going to kill me, and you take extreme precaution on it, right. You know, or like, you know, something like, 911, right? Like, it's very obvious, that thing's got blown up is very visible, is very tangible. This is invisible. And it's highly variable. And you're basing everything I mean, you're not getting close to a Corona patient. Right, you know, probably right here, at least not intentionally. So everything is like at a distance. And what I've realized is that, if you don't trust, you know, experts or the press, and you know, what, there's, unfortunately, a lot of good reasons not to trust them, because they've messed up a lot. Yet on their hand, they're not, you know, even if they mean, this is, you know, I tweeted this the other day, but basically, expert, I mean, it's so obvious, right, but I'll just say this, like, you know, Democrats need to learn that experts aren't always right, Republicans need to learn that experts are always wrong. libertarians need to learn that a state can succeed, and progressives need to learn that a state can fail. And those are all like almost topologically obvious kind of things. Yet, I think, given some of the responses to that, it pokes directly at a few blind spots there, right? Because once you move from the Nietzschean ideological zero or 100 aspect, right? You say, Yeah, okay, CDC did screw up, who did screw up, but they don't, they're not everything they published is wrong, you have to be able to read it critically. And then that now, here's the rub. The rub is, most people cannot do technical diligence. If they can't do technical diligence, they can only do social diligence. And so they can only like trust something uncritically or say it's all fake. So what's happened is because our ends to end and so one of the issues also is just as our institutions have become more noticeably unreliable. They've dumped their chest harder to say how, how they are the truth. Great example The New York Times literally runs an ad campaign about how it's the truth when it published a bunch of bad reporting on Corona early on like including things that said Oh, it's all Zena phobic and what have you, right. And and then, you know, like it actually had some justified journalism in there. And then, you know, two months from instead of saying it's not just a fluke, well, who would have given them that idea, right, you know, like Fox did and Rico did and BuzzFeed did and wash boats perspective. Did and wire did and, and so on who would have gotten that idea? Right. And so the the issue is that there'll be a real tragedy, which is folks who reasonably do not trust, these institutions will find that they're not always wrong. So, yeah,

Unknown Speaker  1:05:20  
and then press on press on this component of it, right? Because you mentioned, like the people in Michigan who show up with, you know, with guns and right, are basically saying, look, we don't want to agree to the lockdown. And there's this underlying sentiment in the United States, specifically around freedom, the Constitution, just don't tell me to do, right. And that, to me, kind of feels good bleeds into this idea of the countries that are the government's there. They're not always wrong, but there is a some, you know, sense of distrust, or if everything goes to shit, I'm gonna take my personal freedom, and I can, you know, go solve my own problem. And I think you're seeing some of the extreme examples of that when people show up in Michigan, etc. But at what point do we get where that becomes not the extreme and starts to seep into the main mainstream mentality, and it leads to the ultimate failure of an institution, right? Or actually, it's not just the who being wrong, sometimes people just point and say, they're always wrong, we no longer trust them.

Unknown Speaker  1:06:25  
Unfortunately, it's already there were like this coupon stuff, and, you know, plan demick and what have you. I mean, that's a true crazy stuff, right? And,

Unknown Speaker  1:06:37  
and, you know, it's not even,

Unknown Speaker  1:06:42  
it's no longer rational. It's like arguing with, like, a religion or something. Because, folks, they don't, they don't, they're not arguing in the way that I would talk to a scientist, which is, here's x, here's why. If a then B, you know, that kind of thing. They're just, they're just on another planet, right? And

Unknown Speaker  1:07:03  
the problem is,

Unknown Speaker  1:07:08  
people, people don't understand how much

Unknown Speaker  1:07:11  
stuff is running, like, you know, to just keep society going. Right? And

Unknown Speaker  1:07:20  
if you if you break all of that,

Unknown Speaker  1:07:24  
you're taking it for granted, right? These aren't protesters and so on. Like, look, I understand that they're quote, mad about the lockdowns. And so I think that they're not really,

Unknown Speaker  1:07:34  
but let's talk about that just for a second, okay, just because it's, it's been turned to this binary thing. And it's much more complicated that, Okay, first, the best outcome would be like a New Zealand or Australia or Taiwan, on, you know, which is a democratic country that managed to control the virus, that's going to have healthier people and wealthier people in the long run. Okay? So shows that as possible, be as achievable and seems achievable without becoming a police state, and so on. Very, very important to know that that was possible. Okay. All right. So that that was possible, but the US hasn't achieved it. So what does that mean? Okay, so when you've got an out of control virus, and it's a serious virus, okay, so let's take that as a premise, because folks want to, there's folks who want to say it's like, just a flu or whatever, leave that aside for now. Okay, you've got an out of control serious virus. That means, so we give the analogy of an invasion. Right? I'm going to give a different analogy, which is the power going out? Okay, so our society is explicitly premised on our power water, roads, and increasingly internet, right? And if the power goes out, you don't expect a restaurant to be able to serve the same number of customers often doesn't work, for example, the lights don't go on, you know, all that type of stuff. Right? Okay. If the water goes out, you don't expect them to serve customers, you expect the, you know, state the utility to fix that. Um, and then, if it can't, you realize, okay, I need to get a generator, I need to get like a water purifier. And those, by the way, are inefficient, you know, when they're not done centrally, a lot of the stuff is much, much, much more efficient when it's done centrally. From a power standpoint, from a cost standpoint, having 10,000 generators is just, you know, those things aren't as good, right? Um, solar panels are different. I'll come back to that. But let's just say in general, okay. Plus a pin, pin the neck, right. It's something where it's attacks, not just on your money, but it's on your time to like, not be able to plug something in and have it go on. Okay. So these are utilities that were explicitly premised on, but we are implicitly premised on the absence of serious infectious disease in the public square. Okay, I want to linger on this point, we are taking a we until COVID-19 took for granted the public health triumphs of the 20th century. Um, so I tweeted this, you know, but basically, there's a review from 1976 of the conquest of infectious diseases like a by Bicentennial summary, right, and talked about all the measures and chucking it enormous. It was it was thought of at that time, in 1976, as a massive social and technological achievement on par with like, getting to the moon was controlling, you know, cholera, malaria, tuberculosis, all these infectious diseases in the United States. And, and this is before they had PCR, or didn't have PCR testing, they have much of the technology we have today, they did a lot of it with, you know, training of swamps, and, you know, like sanitation, certainly vaccines and whatnot. But basically, they took the problem seriously, and they executed on and they went and eradicated or controlled a lot of these diseases. And what's happened is, over the last 50 years, people have just sort of forgotten that that was ever a thing. And so that's how we have society, or many, many businesses are premised on the presence of this utility, which is public health, for example, conferences, or concerts, or, you know, frankly, any large crowd of any kind rallies right, on or public, public transit, you know, restaurants, bars, all of these things with gatherings of large crowds are implicitly premised on the public health being being present. So like the power going out, you can think of the health habit going out. So what happens if the health is gone out? Just like it would be kind of crazy to say to a restaurant power through and just serve your customers if the oven doesn't

Unknown Speaker  1:11:54  
work? Well,

Unknown Speaker  1:11:56  
if the health has gone out, and the restaurant opens back up, a bunch of things happen. First, some significant fraction of customers stay home. Second, there's new costs that are imposed on the restaurant. And if you saw California is reopening guidelines for restaurants, but they basically expect like Joe's diner to implement biodefense mode. Okay. All right. So if Joe's entered,

Unknown Speaker  1:12:16  
go ahead. I was gonna say that sounds very reasonable. Right?

Unknown Speaker  1:12:20  
Exactly. It's the status field. So it's

Unknown Speaker  1:12:23  
a Snow Crash thing. All right. So, so number one, many customers will stay home, right? Number two, new costs are imposed on a place which is at its lowest point financially, it's just been two months out of revenue. It's like sucking sucking wind businesses down. And now the state expects it to, like, you know, basically build a clean room around a dining table, right? Um, okay. Number three, workers will get sick. Because the virus is uncontrolled. Right? So you have much more in the way of random matches. Number four, you have PR and liability risk. The moment that like your restaurant or whatever, is marked a hotspot. Because, you know, there's a report a news report of someone getting it, boom, business vanishes again, right? Show that that's not an exaggeration in South Korea. 2000 bars were shut down after one guy, you know, walked through five, do you see that? I do not. Okay, yeah. So after South Korea opened up, okay, because they've gotten the virus under control. One COVID-19 guy walked into a bar. And, and he mentioned to a few bar hop for a night and manage to infect, like on the order of 40 to 70 people, the exact number still being determined. On 1900 people had to be tested traced in 2000. bars were shut down.

Unknown Speaker  1:13:49  
One guy, one guy,

Unknown Speaker  1:13:50  
yep, one guy right. Now, I'm not saying it's his fault or anything like that, uh, he didn't know, I think he was asymptomatic or what have you, right. But, um, this gives a sense of how the when the health has gone out. A significant part of the economy is no longer economically feasible to the same extent, right? Anything based on your head. So to end the lockdown doesn't, doesn't fix it is my point, right? Unless you control the virus, you have less customers because people will social distance, you have like bio defense mode that you need to implement. If you don't implement it, then workers will get sick, and people who come will get sick and there's constant PR and liability risk. So what do I think actually happens? Right? What I think happens is many restaurants will essentially just take restaurants for a second I'll go to other kinds of businesses, they will have to upload themselves and cloudify themselves. What I mean by that, so the restaurant will shut down it's the smart restaurant will shut down its physical facility citing force majeure, or do cloud kitchens.com just set up a new back end, which is headless. And that can be by the way out in the middle of nowhere. It doesn't have to be a plumb location you don't need, you don't care about your tables, you don't care about your chairs, your decor. Number three, your storefront becomes purely digital, you're in an app. And number four, you basically are now just delivery only. Okay? So you digitize yourself, you've become headless, you cut off the front, right? The restaurant itself is shut down by this is another very important aspect. You could end the lockdowns, well, that actually takes away leverage from businesses in an important way. Because now it's no longer an atypical time. It's no longer a typical time. They have to pay all their rent, and other kinds of things. But now they're at 25% of revenue, right? So you've pushed them into this weird intermediate state, which is also kind of likely to kill them. And the fundamental thing I think, is the end of the lockdowns folks, look, I understand, I understand where they're coming from. A lot of folks, I mean, I've never been blahs a if you look at my feet, even, even back to early March, when people were talking about shutting down South by Southwest and so on. Right. Um, it almost made me like, throw up to think about, okay, you know, these people work so hard on this for a whole year. I know how hard it is to organize something. And then people say, Oh, just shut down your conference? Well, that's gonna you know, that's, that's something where those guys are just taking it on the chin for a public good, you know, maybe the state could reimburse them or something. I was thinking, you know, but now, it's so widespread, you multiply that by a million. That's what's happened in America. Right? So I totally understand where the end lockdowns folks coming from. The issue is that, even though you might risk it for to go back to work for your job, you're not going to risk it to on just go and like, get a drink at the bar? Or if you do, you may not you may not do so forever. Right. So let's talk mmt BTC. Right. You know, it's funny I last year, or for a while basically talking about how the title fight of the 2020s will be mmt verse BTC. And I think that's coming even faster than I expected. Where we're definitely, you know, whether you call it mmt or not, we are definitely in the time of the unlimited government. Right. And, you know, that's the opposite by the way of limited government is unlimited government. So you have a government that has no limits on, you know, it can put people under house arrest effectively with lock downs, it can change prices, it can, you know, shut down your business, it can ban flights, it can print money, it's basically a wartime kind of government, right, the unlimited government. And the thing about mmt is, it doesn't make any sense, in my view, if you like in in logical terms, okay. And just to articulate what it is, for those folks who don't know what it is, on modern monetary theory, or mmt, is there's there's the observation that the state can print money. And that's often accompanied by the recommendation that the state should print money. Okay. And it should print money to pay for everything, and that there's no constraint on the state doing this. Right. On and, you know, essentially, like, if they're pressed on, oh, want to cause inflation, they say, well, don't worry, if inflation happens, and prices start going up, we'll just raise taxes to pull the money we just printed back out of the economy right? Now, the the just to show that I'm not making this up, there's a there's a video that you might be able to link or what have you by

Unknown Speaker  1:18:48  
Gosh, it's,

Unknown Speaker  1:18:49  
I tweeted it a while back. But it essentially shows the mmt folks treating the economy is like a tank of water, and they pump in water, and they pull it out with taxes and so on. And this is a very naive view for many, many reasons. One of which is, in times of inflation, if you try to increase taxes, well, people, you know, they've already got lower consumption, and they're going to resist that. Number two is the economy is not a tank of water. It's, it's adversarial, right, like people will respond to incentives, and one of the things they'll do is they'll move their money into BTC or other cryptocurrencies and so on and get out of the tank where, you know, you're, you're printing all this money. And so mmt, you know, it can't be really understood in terms of what its people say, but it can be understood from a different sense, which is, I have a gun. Right. mmt is the language of the state. The total state the unlimited state, which says, the state can increase taxes to 99% and expropriate everything you have right because that's what that means, like print all the money means dilute you down to zero. It's like being able to print trillions Have shares on the cap table or what have you, right? And so it means that I can print all this money and because it's currency within this realm, I can seize any asset of anybody and, and do so in a quiet and stealth way, right? Because you don't see your percentage of, you know, market cap right. Now, one thing I want to be clear about, it's not as simple as just straight inflation because there's huge deflation occurring in the economy as well. So we're probably going to get something where it's like pandemic deflation, as I mentioned, of all the, all the things people don't want, like concerts go to zero in terms of price or drop substantially all the things they do want rise in price. Okay. So, so in one corner is mmt, this language of the total state. And the other corner is BTC, which is, um, you know, maybe the leader of the free world, right, I think that's rocket of statement. But, um, you know, the US itself is sort of absent globally, from the pandemic crisis, you know, it doesn't stand for freedom it or rather, maybe it does, but it's not like, you know, usually when there's like a flood in some country, you have Marines land, and they, you know, hug babies and pose for a photo op. And, you know, it's good stuff, right? You know, like the moving sandbags, you probably did some of those missions or whatever. And, and the use is completely absent from the global stage on this. They're not defending other countries because they've been invaded themselves, right? And so

Unknown Speaker  1:21:29  
who's the leader of the free world?

Unknown Speaker  1:21:32  
I think it's going to be Bitcoin,

Unknown Speaker  1:21:34  
or Bitcoin is the leader of the free world,

Unknown Speaker  1:21:36  
what you're kind of talking about here is mmt is a complete state initiated process, you devalue the currency, you get people addicted to the state being the Savior and having to drive all of the value. And literally, it's like a child and a mother, right? The mother has to take care of the child or the child doesn't they cut us by Bitcoin is a weird way 180 degree difference, and it is coming at it from in one area, you can print as much as you want. In this one, you can print zero, right, it is completely decentralized. And so I think a lot of people are wondering, okay, I by the argument that those two worlds are going to coexist for some period of time, can they coexist forever? Or do they meet in kind of that boxing match in the middle, and one has to knock the other map? So

Unknown Speaker  1:22:27  
I think that, were they so the analogy I would give is, I think BTC ultimately wins. But it's going to be a giant fight between I mean, like, you know, think about Facebook before 2016. And then Facebook afterwards. Afterwards, everybody's like, Oh, my God, this thing is actually extremely powerful. And, you know, all these attacks were launched, and it's still standing. But it took more fire at that time than it ever had before. Once Bitcoin hits 100,000, I don't know when I mean, frankly, it could happen in a week from now, it could happen a year from now, it could happen five years from now or whatever, right? But eventually we'll, once it hits like 100,000 and you know, Bitcoin being what it is, it could happen in a day after being nothing for a long time.

Unknown Speaker  1:23:15  
When it does,

Unknown Speaker  1:23:17  
and I've no doubt that will eventually simply because so much money is being printed. When it does, then you're going to get another level of state interest in in all senses of the term. Some states will actually adopt it as like a gold like thing. Other states will try to stamp it out, you know, on but as long as some seats adopted and the internet doesn't go down, Bitcoin will win.

Transcribed by https://otter.ai
