Unknown Speaker  0:05  
Hi, it's Eric with some thoughts for this week's audio essay on the topic of superposition. Now, to those of you in the know superposition is an odd word in that it is the scientific concept we reach for when trying to describe the paradox of Schrodinger cat, and the theory and philosophy of quantum measurement. We don't yet know how to say that the cat is both dead and alive at the same time rigorously. So we fudge whatever is going on with this unfortunate feline and say that the cat and the quantum system on which its life depends, are a mixture of two distinct states that are somehow commingled in a way that has defied a satisfying explanation for about a century. Now, I'm usually loath to appeal to such quantum concepts in everyday life as there is a veritable industry of people making bad quantum analogies. For example, whenever you have a non quantum system that is altered by its observation, that really has nothing to do with the Heisenberg uncertainty principle, Jane Goodall is chimpanzees are almost certainly altered in their behavior due to her presence. But there's likely no competent quantum theorist who would analogize chimps to electrons and Goodall to her mission observable executing a quantum observation. Heisenberg adds nothing other than physics envy to the discussion of an entirely classical situation such as this. However, I have changed my mind in the case of superposition is I would now like to explain

Unknown Speaker  1:24  
to begin with superposition isn't a quantum phenomena. For example, imagine that you'd come from Europe to Australia, and that you had both euros and Swiss francs in your pockets. You might then be said to be in a superposition because you have pocket change in both euros and francs rather than a pure state of only one currency or the other. The analog of the physical observable in the situation would be something like a multiple choice question found on the landing card about the contents of your pockets. Here it is easy to see the danger of the setup. Assuming you have three times as much value in euros as you do in francs, what happens when you get a question that doesn't include your situation as an answer? What if the landing card asked is all of your change in a euros or be Swiss francs with no other options available? Well, this, as stated is a completely classical superposition problem having nothing to do with quantum theory? Were you to have such a classical question asked a view like this, there would have been no way for you to answer. However, if the answer were on the multiple choice menu, there would be no problem at all, and you would give a clear answer determined by the state of your pockets. So if the state in question isn't on the multiple choice menu, the classical world is forced to go mute as there is no answer determined by the system. Whereas if it is found on the list of allowable choices, the answer is then completely determined by the system state at the time that the question was asked. Oddly, the quantum world is in a way exactly as deterministic as the classical one just described. Despite what you may have heard to the contrary, in order to understand this, we'll have to introduce a bit of jargon. So long as the system now called the Hilbert space state is on the list of answers technically called the system of Eigen vectors corresponding to the question now called a quantum observable, the question will return a completely deterministic answer, technically called the eigenvalue corresponding to the state Eigen vector. These are in a sense good questions in quantum theory, because the answer corresponding to the state of the system actually appears as one of the multiple choice options. So if that is completely deterministic, well, then what happened to the famous quantum probability theory and the indeterminacy that we hear so much about? What if I told you that it were 100% confined to the situation which classical theory couldn't handle either? That is quantum probability theory only becomes relevant when you ask bad Quantum Questions where the state of the system isn't on the list of multiple choice answers. When the landing card asked if all your change were completely in euros, or only in francs, the classical system couldn't answer because three times the value of your Swiss francs were held in euros, so no answer could be determined. But if your pocket change was somehow quantum, well, then you might find that 75% of the time, your pocket coins would bizarrely turn into pure euros, and would be willingly turned into pure francs 25% of the time, just by virtue of your being asked for a measurement by the landing card. In the quantum theory. This is due to the multiple choice answers of the so called observable represented by the landing card question, not being well suited to the mix state of your pockets in a superposition between euros and francs. In other words, quantum theory gets probabilistic only where classical theory went mute. All of the indeterminacy appears to come from asking bad multiple choice questions in both the classical and quantum regimes in which the state of the system doesn't fit any given answer. Quite honestly, I've never heard a physicist rework the issue of quantum probabilities in just this way, so as to highlight that the probabilistic weirdness comes only from the quantum being overly solicitous and accommodating really bad questions. For some reason, they don't like the idea of cause And observable that doesn't have the state of the system as an allowable answer a bad question, but that is precisely why I do like it. It points out that the quantum is deterministic, where the classical theory is deterministic, and only probabilistic where the classical theory is mute. This is because it is weirdly willing to answer questions that are in a sense that can be made precise, bad questions to begin with. That doesn't get rid of the mystery, but it recasts it so it doesn't sound quite so weird. The new question is, why would a quantum system over compensate for the lousy questions being posed when the classical system seems to know not to answer? So why bring any of this up? Well, the first reason is that I couldn't resist sneaking in a personal reformulation of the quantum measurement problem that most people will have never considered. But the second reason is that I've come to believe that we are wasting our political lives on just such superposition questions. For example, let's see if we can solve the abortion debate problem right now on this podcast using superposition, as it is much easier than the abortion problem itself. The abortion debate problem is that everyone agrees that before fertilization there's no human life to worry about, and that after a baby is born, there's no question that it has a right to live. Yet pro choice and pro life activists insist on telling us that the developing embryo is either a mere bundle of cells suddenly becoming a life only when born or a full fledged baby the moment the sperm enters the egg. You can guess my answer here. The question of Is it a baby's life or a woman's choice is agreed upon by everyone before fertilization or following birth? Because the observable in question has the system as one of the two multiple choice answers in those two cases. However, during the process of embryonic development, something miraculous is taking place that we simply don't understand scientifically. Somehow a non sentient blastula becomes a baby by a process utterly opaque to science, which is yet has no mature theory of consciousness. The system in utero isn't changing and progressing superposition tilted heavily towards not being a baby at the beginning and tilted heavily towards being one at the end of the pregnancy. But the problem here is that we have allowed the activists rather than the embryologist and developmental biologists to hand us the life versus choice observable with its two terrible multiple choice options. If we had let the embryologist set the multiple choice question there would be at least 23 Carnegie stages for the embryo before you even get to fetal development. But instead of going forward from what we both know and don't know with high confidence about the system, we are instead permanently deranged by being stuck with Schrodinger embryo by the activists who insist on working backwards from their political objectives. So does this somehow solve the abortion issue? Of course not. All it does is get us to see how ridiculously transparent we are in our politics that we would allow our society to be led by those activists who would shoehorn the central scientific miracle of human development into a nutty political binary of convenience. We don't even think to ask, Who are these people who have left us at each other's throats debating an inappropriate multiple choice question that can never be answered. Well, in the spirit of the portal, we are always looking for a way out of our perennial problems to try to find an exit. And I think that the technique here of teaching oneself to spot superposition problems in stalemated political systems brings a great deal of relief to those of us who find the perspective of naive activism a fairly impoverished worldview. The activist mindset is always trying to remove nuanced selections that might better match our worlds needs. from among the multiple choice answers until it finds a comical binary. Do you support the war on drugs? Yes or no? Are you for or against immigration? Should men and women be treated equally? Should we embrace capitalism or choose socialism? racism, systemic problem or convenient excuse? is China a trading partner or a strategic rival? Has technology stagnated? Or is it in fact racing ahead at breakneck speed? Has feminism gone too far, or not far enough? In all of these cases, there's an entire industry built around writing articles that involve replacing conversations that might progress towards answers and agreement with simple multiple choice political options that foreclose all hope. And in general, we can surmise when this has occurred because activism generally leaves a distinct signature, where the true state of a system is best represented as a superposition of the last two remaining choices that bitterly divided us handed us by activists. So I will leave you with the following thought. The principle of superposition is not limited to quantum weirdness, and it may be governing your life at a level you have never considered. Think about where you are most divided from your loved ones politically. Then ask yourself when I listen to the debates at my dinner table, am I hearing a set of multiple choice answers that sound like they were developed by scholars interested in understanding or by activists who were pushing for an outcome? If the latter, think about whether you couldn't make more progress with Those who love by recognizing that the truth is usually in some kind of a superposition of the last remaining answers pushed by the activists. But you don't have to accept these middlebrow binary dilemmas and try lemmas. Instead, try asking a new question. If my loved ones and I trashed the terms of debate foisted upon us by strangers, activists in the news media, could we together fashioned a list of multiple choice answers that we might agree contain an answer we all could live with. And that better describes the true state of the system? I mean, do you really want open or closed borders? Do you really want to talk about psilocybin and heroin in the same breath? Do you really want to claim that there is no systemic oppression or that governs every aspect of our lives? Before long, it is my hope that you will develop an intuition that many long running stalemated discussions are really about having our lives shoehorned by others into inappropriate binaries that can only represent the state of our world as a superposition of inappropriate and simplistic answers that you never would have chosen for yourself. After a few brief words from our sponsors, I'll be back to introduce the guests for this episode's discussion.

Unknown Speaker  11:10  
The portal is thrilled to welcome back returning sponsor wine access this week with a somewhat obscure book recommendation, check out wine snobbery and expos a by Andrew bar, which when it was first published in 1988, in the UK, toward the lid off some of the shady practices that the wine industry has used to intimidate their own customers. I bring this up because this is the reverse of the strategy at wine access, where their wine geeks always educate you to the fact that you can usually get a bottle of wine that is better quality at lower price. If you stay away from the most famous labels, I hope you'll get as much out of wine access as I do. And it's now even easier to try with this new limited time offer for our listeners, you can get $20 off your first purchase of $50 or more which is an incredible savings on these outstanding ones that are already at a great value. To get your $20 off just go to our special URL line access comm slash portal with wine xs.com slash a portal to get yourself one hell of a bottle with wine access.com slash portal so why not order them bottles denied wine access comm slash portal. Returning sponsor blinkist is out to make sure that book people remain book people. Now how is that? Well, they know that there are lots of nonfiction titles that you're eager to read. But with a modern attention span, there's no way you're going to get to them all. So what's the answer? Well, they send out their team of expert close readers to read all the books you're thinking about, and to digest them into 15 minute blinks, summarizing the main points. That way you can either read or listen to a blink to decide whether you want to invest further in that book. A good example of this be Walter Isaacson's books on Benjamin Franklin and Albert Einstein you could figure out which of the two is be a better investment of your time. So with blink is do you get unlimited access to read or listen to a massive library of condensed nonfiction books, all the books you want and all for one low price. And right now for a limited time. blinkist has a special offer just for our audience. Go to blink is calm slash portal and try it free for seven days and you'll also save 25% off your new subscription that's blink is spelled bl I nk is t blink is calm slash portal to start your free seven day trial. You'll also save 25% off but only when you sign up at blankest comm slash portal.

Unknown Speaker  13:29  
Today's guest is general partner at Andreessen Horowitz, a founder of the biotech firm console and former CTO at coin base. He's also a friend and one of the people in tech I always love talking with on almost any subject because of the originality of his homespun analysis. Balaji Srinivasan is a fellow stem PhD, who left research for tech. If you think about academics as having a natural culture that is often as strong or stronger than national or ethnic cultures, biology and I still maintain various sensibilities in common that reveal us to be academic experts from the system of research universities, in a different era, biology would likely have become a quirky Professor loved by students and feared by anyone with the soul of an administrator. But perhaps because his move from Silicon Valley electrical engineering to tech was later in time and not quite as far of an intellectual jump from conventional East Coast mathematics. Biology went in for a much more aggressive computer and data centered vision of the future than I was prepared for biology is a firm believer in visions where crypto and decentralized computing together with other technologies ultimately liberate us from the world of excess social engineering financialization, and declining technical competence. Thus, I have always enjoyed our conversations immensely, as I view him as one of the most aggressive and generative futurists out there with an interesting and original take on almost anything involving our various possible worlds to come. It was thus no surprise to me that Balaji was one of the earliest and clearest major voices on the Coronavirus web. predictably derided and Miss portrayed by journalists and others as being part of a world of tech bro preppers deranged by cheap apocalyptic fantasies from too many dystopian video games. Balaji held his ground and calmly analytically explained why everyone needed to radically change her or his thinking as quickly as possible surrounding the virus. Of course, in that nearly forgotten academic world where such a highly original non joiner would have been welcomed, Balaji might have spoken with the authority of a professor. It despite having a PhD from Stanford and having co founded a major biotech company that sold for nine figures. I was shocked to see far less technical people making their living as writers taking potshots at the so called tech bro. Okay, I admit I don't get it. If you're male, and you make a living in technology, you're automatically a dismissable bro, according to people who write for a living across the country in either Brooklyn or near Dupont Circle. Well, that's moronic biology may be crazy, but he's certainly the right kind of crazy according to us, and not a prepper a grifter or a bro. And if I may speak directly to the so called commentariat cut it out, stop with the jealous that you guys are losing mindshare for rational reasons. Because you can't compete with people who are actually trying to think ahead and help other people think rationally for themselves. If you want to compete with the biologies of the world, stop trying to figure out who is up or who is down and start learning to look at the world from first principles. That's what they do. Then get the story early, get it right and then show us how you don't back down. Dare your editors to fire you if they don't like the scoop you just filed and you did so responsibly. But whatever you do, you have a responsibility to the world to stop running everyone outside your little club down for the thoughtcrime of giving good advice that contradicts whatever nonsense is being spotted by the three letter official organization that you've been led to believe represents the gold standard are the Word of God like the who are the CDC? It's enough already capetian Okay, so biology might be crazy, but he's very much are kind of crazy here at the portal. This I wanted to introduce him to our audience. As you will note, he and I disagree, but that is hardly the issue. biology is trying to think critically about what happens next and how this virus remakes the world. I personally tend to think biology might be too quick to give up on making institutions sane again, and he likely views me as stuck in the past unable to realize how the blockchain and private enterprise will allow us to disintermediate the traditional institutions and their subversion. Suffice it to say that I think I am more correct, but that I hope that his vision is closer to accurate, and if I'm honest, neither position is a slam dunk. I do hope you will enjoy this first uninterrupted conversation with Balaji Srinivasan, which will begin after a few brief messages from our sponsors.

Unknown Speaker  17:49  
Returning sponsor for SIG Matic everyone's favorite plucky finished mushroom beverage company wishes to bring you another great moment in Finnish history. In the early 1990s famous Finnish American Linus Torvalds had a problem. He couldn't get the software he needed into Finland, or what was he to do? He sat down according to legend with a cup of coffee and some mushrooms fell into it. And at that moment, he had a brainwave, he would write his own open source version of Unix called Linux and the world My friends has never been the same thanks to a cup of coffee and finish ingenuity. So my friends if you two want to write directly into machine code, go grab yourself some 100% Arabica coffee with Lion's Mane mushrooms for four sigmatic declare your head so whether you're a mushroom lover or a mushroom hater who wants to get the benefits of mushrooms, we have a special offer for the entire portal audience you can get 15% off your for CIG Matic purchase but only if you go to four SIG Matic comm slash portal. That's 15% off your for CIG Matic purchase if you go to fo you are si g ma t IC comm slash portal or use discount code portal at checkout for sig matic.com slash portal. Returning sponsored persona has been making great men's razors for almost 145 years and I've now switched completely to personas men's five blade razor system. Why? Because I always get a great shave the blades are incredibly well made. And with their pivoting head design, they can handle all of those tricky facial angles every time. Oddly, the ad copy is telling me to tell you exactly what I was thinking this morning. That the difference between my old razor and persona has been night and day persona doesn't seem to wear out nearly as quickly as my old razor. It gives me a Great Shave every time. And I also didn't realize it but I was not feeling great because my old razor company was not aligned with some of my values choosing to lecture me when I really just want to be shaving. And I feel like persona is doing a great job because their new blades fit on my old handle so I don't have to change much of anything at all. So order persona from Amazon today and get an extra 25% off your first order that's shipped directly to your door with zero hassle. So don't wait go to amazon.com slash persona and use our discount code razors 25 that's amazon.com slash p er s o n a and use our code razors 25 To get 25% off your first order.

Unknown Speaker  20:08  
Hello, you found the portal. I'm your host, Eric Weinstein. And today I get to sit down with my friend, constantly inspiring mind, which is always restless. Mr. Balaji Srinivasan Balaji. Great to have you with us, Eric, great to be here. So Balaji, of course, is the former CTO of Coinbase, as well as general partner at Andreessen Horowitz. And also the founder of a biotech startup that I think sold for over 300 million if I'm not incorrect biology, is that correct? Yeah. Yeah, that's right. Yep. And generally just a great, uncorrelated mind and spirit, who has been particularly good, getting us early information on the corona situation? So Balaji, can you just give us a little bit of history with you, and the Coronavirus? And how you came to be concerned about this and what you've learned in this process?

Unknown Speaker  21:04  
Yeah, sure. So, um, you know, I've been, basically, I guess, a part time citizen journalist, Sean Corona for the last three months or so four months, since late January, you know, I was going to be doing some other things this year. And I may still do them and try and fold them in or reboot them. But I was basically just following the news. And I saw the lockdown of Wu Han on January 23. And I realized that was a very serious thing. Because actions mean, louder, you know, speak louder than words, especially in China. And, and from that, I started digging into the biomedical literature and read everything I could get my hands on and talk to a lot of people in China to get a view on the ground. And mainly, the reason that I dug into it is, um, you know, like, as an investor, you're tuned to look for things that can get very big from a small base, you know, and, and this was the first thing that I felt like I was diligence thing on that if it did get really big, that I would feel bad about it. Like, normally you're doing your due diligence, good investment, and you want to hope you hope it gets big. And this was something where I was diligence, can try to attack it and cut the legs out from under it, like, you know, like what one normally would, and I couldn't, and so I started tweeting about it and covering it. And, and that kind of brings us to the presentation, lots of things happen, obviously, over that period.

Unknown Speaker  22:32  
So this is really an interesting perspective. In some sense, the virus was pitching us from Wu Han with all of those fumigations. And there were a small number of early adopters in the states who really got the virus, but for the most part, the herd couldn't understand what was going on. And in part that puts you as an early adopter, because you started talking very early about this being a potentially worldwide disaster.

Unknown Speaker  23:03  
Yeah, I mean, like, the thing about it is, it's one of the things that had tail risk, right? Actually, you know, I was certainly by no means the only person like Nassim Taleb, on, you know, also had, you know, some writing at the same time, put out a paper on this. And, and, you know, if you think about tail events, right, whether Taleb has from kind of a, you know, Wall Street perspective, or, you know, like I have we have from a from a tech or VC perspective, um, Tyler Cohen is a good way of talking about this, where he calls it like, base Raiders versus growth growth cases, right? And the base rate, people essentially say, hey, what you're talking about has never happened before. And therefore, tomorrow will be the same as today. And therefore, you know, you're crazy. You know, like, things won't change, right. And frankly, actually, most of the time, that prediction algorithm is pretty good in the same way that like predicting tomorrow's weather from today's is actually took a while for weather prediction to beat that. Right. Um, and, and then, of course, you've got another school of thought, which is a growth algorithm, or the growth mindset, where you can say, hey, actually, maybe this thing could go vertical. And, and in truth, intelligence, right,

Unknown Speaker  24:15  
yeah. So who do you Who do you think of as being early on this that had a large platform and a strong voice?

Unknown Speaker  24:24  
early, it had lash large part from strong voice? Um,

Unknown Speaker  24:28  
so I actually want to give a Let's see who. So there's folks in China, like Chi Ching. I'm probably mispronouncing that, but basically, there were actually some Chinese news outlets publish really important stuff on the Coronavirus, and it was actually censored in real time, like I archived the links, and I could see them being taken down in real time. And they had a fairly large platform. You China. So that's kind of one group. A, let's see, it was so I'd say Laurie Garrett, who she had written a book on, basically, you know, illnesses like the, I think the coming plague she had written.

Unknown Speaker  25:16  
I think,

Unknown Speaker  25:18  
Taleb is somebody I think actually, Scott Alexander put together a long list of folks. And you can kind of go through that list. I'm sure I'll, you know, forget somebody off the top of my head. And, you know, actually Matt Stoller, who I disagree with on many things on was was also early on this. You know, Matt, Matt, and I have, I don't know, we may agree on 30% of things, may 40%. But we're very much discussing the rest However, he was, he was absolutely right. And early on, this

Unknown Speaker  25:48  
is a very disagreeable person in general. And it seems to me like no one who lack there was no agreeable person who got this early.

Unknown Speaker  25:59  
You had that right. And that's, that's because, um,

Unknown Speaker  26:04  
you know, the thing is,

Unknown Speaker  26:07  
the term disagreeable has a pejorative connotation. Right? Um, and, you know, you can use it in the neutral sense of someone who will not agree for the sake of agreeing. But it's basically something where, you know, you might, you might portray both of them as positive. There's like a consensus model. And there's like, I don't know, an independent thinking model, right? Or first principles model. And, yeah, like if you're if you're a consensus thinker, it's is something where they're, you know, you just get attacked and yelled at and mocked for, for saying something that was that was quite different. And, and you know, what, like, a lot of people who say something that's different from consensus aren't necessarily correct. And then you get back into the loop of Okay, how do you know whether they're correct or not? Right, but go ahead?

Unknown Speaker  26:54  
Well, I guess I just I, if I feel like if I actually have to refight that battle, every show, I'll get nowhere. So I've just decided that we've won, and that they're obviously wrong, because the record shows that they're obviously wrong and wrong for the same reasons, every time. Like, if I were to say something about the fact that we should really be thinking about the potential for the COVID epidemic to turn towards armed conflict and war. I'll elicit the same reaction from people who aren't allowed to think that many steps ahead, like well, Chicken Little, I don't know, you know, great, I guess the sky is falling again. And right. And whatever that energy is, part of our lesson, I think, is just to ignore it, to learn. That it's it's sort of sort of an evil thing that will hurt us very badly. Because what we're doing is we're learning to associate the people who have the timestamps again, on this one, I don't have the timestamps. In fact, the first thing that I say on this is on February 9, where I say, No, I don't yet have a take on the Coronavirus, where I at least knew that I wasn't doing the work, I was seeing too much crazy stuff. So I guess what I want to do is to sort of say, look, let's try to do something different on my show. We don't have to refight the Battle of disagree ability, the disagreeable people are writing the other people are wrong. Okay. What do we do now with the coexistence of these communities? Like, for example, you've seen these tech journalists who really wanted to go after the tech bros who are like preppers. And you know, the whole thing? How do we continue to manage our sense making operation in a world where the giant sense making organs get things wrong, and don't even stop to take, you know, the measure of the situation, they don't catch their breath. It doesn't matter whether somebody like Mike cernovich was early. The point is Mike cernovich is off the menu, and whoever got it wrong and said, this is a psychological problem. We should treat it psychologically, that person will continue to have a job at the Washington Post. Why won't this change?

Unknown Speaker  29:14  
So, um, so a few things. One is actually I think both these questions, but they're the first thing and this are related, which are there's two ways that you can diverge from the conventional wisdom, this is almost tautological, but one is you can be more correct. And the other is you can be less correct. And, and the thing is, I think, you know, let's call it and that's just on the west coast, but there's a the disagreeable state of mind or you know, Taleb state of mind is you divert from the consensus, because you've got a better view than this. You're not consistent, right, you know, and gillar Milligan and we're also seeing, you know, I would say the, like q&a type stuff and so on, which is non consensus and You know, I'd argue wrong, and kind of crazy stuff.

Unknown Speaker  30:03  
And even there, you have to be very careful because any large group of disagreeable people finds a lot of discarded truth that the mainstream doesn't want to deal with. So even in the darkest corners of the web and make them as dark as you want, they usually have a little bit of truth that they're carefully polishing, because the mainstream won't deal with.

Unknown Speaker  30:24  
So So this gets basically to I think one of my one liners, which is the internet increases variance. And you can hover on that, and you can do a lot with that statement. So for example, you go from 30 minute sitcoms to 32nd clips and 30 episode Netflix binges. You go from, you know, a stable nine to five job to gig economy on one side, and you know, a 20 year old billionaire on the other side, right. And on many different dimensions, the internet is increasing variants, it's going, you know, for example, from three television channels or cable news to incredible, you know, variety of different media outlets, every personal view on

Unknown Speaker  31:04  
what's up, and and we're in has grown arbitrarily large,

Unknown Speaker  31:07  
yes. And as arbitrary, the large That's right. And, you know, in the sense, every person is now a personal media channel. And I think a big next thing is that they are going to become personal media corporations. And so what I think is important in this world is to think about what decentralized truth looks like. And, you know, how do you come back to reference points that are true, even if people don't want to believe they're true? So, you know, one that I think about a lot is, you know, the blockchain, right? So basically, the Bitcoin blockchain, there's actually a great book on this concept of this angle on Bitcoin that I don't think people outside the space really think about too much. It's called the truth machines by Paul vigna. And Michael Casey. Casey is a former Wall Street Journal, journalist, and, and vigna is a current alias journalist. And so both think about they're actually very good. They're not haters, or anything like that. They're smart. And you can learn something from them. Anyway, so this book, the truth machine makes the point that I'm, or it popularizes the point that's well known within the community, that whether you're Saudi or Japanese, or Brazilian, American, Norwegian, Chinese, what have you, you have the same view of the Bitcoin blockchain as everybody else. And that means the database of who has what money everybody agrees on, on and that's a really important point, because that's, that's a truth, which there's an enormous literal incentive to change in the sense of, if you could, you know, falsify it, if you could somehow manipulate it to award yourself a billion dollars on you would do so or people would do so. And, and so this is a really interesting example of truth in an adversarial environment where there's enormous incentive to, to break it to abuse it, but the database hasn't been corrupted, because we've used technology, cryptography, other kinds of things, proof of work to make it difficult to fake this history to fake this truth. And that's very powerful, because I think you can extend that to other kinds of things, as traditional sources of authority are metabolized. Um, people do want to have common reference points where you can cite this, and the other person will have to concede it's actually true. And then you can kind of move forward from there premise, premise premise premise, at least with a rational person. So let me pause there. Because I think that's part of where I think we end up going.

Unknown Speaker  33:42  
Well, I like that a lot. And this is what I talked about in terms of self refereed games that in a math department, you may really dislike somebody, but if they have the better argument as to who's right and who's wrong. I've almost never seen an argument go multiple days where people can't come to terms with who is correct and who is not. So there are these, you know, jujitsu to an extent as long as you're not talking about rule breaking, somebody either choked you out, or they haven't. And there are edge cases, of course, in every situation, but we have a, we have a coming world in which the attempt to reference things to authoritative sources, as I think now going to fail. Wikipedia, which is the ultimate sort of top layer on top of an authoritative source model is probably going to get degraded because too many people have write privileges inside of what were previously authoritative sources. So I like the idea that the blockchain is an example of how you force reason and rationality because it's too expensive not to participate in communal truth. Although I don't think it works as well for situations where you're not solving an arithmetic problem or something equivalent to an arithmetic problem. I mean,

Unknown Speaker  35:08  
so so that's so wait here. So you're smart enough that you're you added that qualifier on the end, which is somewhat something equivalent to an arithmetic problem. And a really interesting question is how many things can be so reduced? And I think it's a much larger set of things and people think so once you can track, you know, who has what Bitcoin, you can extend the same thing to any digital form of property, right, which includes stocks, bonds, you know, much of the world economy, it includes the passwords to who has access to what, you know, website, who has a private keys to a device to a car, to a house, right. So it has to

Unknown Speaker  35:48  
do with what who can, you know, we can agree that a robber might have a painting, that the painting may not belong to the robber. And so when you start getting into issues of fairness, as opposed to just issues of custody, and again, you know, to the same extent, when you have something that might or might not be equivalent to arithmetic, one thing that you find that's very interesting is watching the number of bets that don't complete, where two people start off acting like they've got a really serious disagreement. And then somebody says, well, let's, let's settle it with a wager. And then you watch as the stape statement gets sharpened, you realize that the two people never really had a disagreement, because they can't come to an agreement as to what the bet should be. Because quite frankly, they both have the same underlying model of reality, but they wanted to put a different sort of emotive layer on top.

Unknown Speaker  36:44  
Yes, I think it's also interesting, because in the formulation of a bet, on each participant immediately with the prospect of loss starts hedging. Right. And, and, and that's rational to do in the sense of, you know, if you think some metric is going to hit 80%. Well, you take the bet, if you think it's own says it's only going to hit 10%, right, there's a sort of a tug of war on it, and people want to give themselves more margin, right. Um, but actually Tyler Cowen A while back tweeted, or maybe was tab rock, he posted something about how bedding produces partisanship. That's to say it is, you know, capitalism is the opposite to tribalism, where it, uh, you know, the prospect of individual gain and loss means it there's an incentive to give a non consensus answer now, but I want to return to your point about, you know, sources of authoritative truth melting down, you know, like, the center cannot hold and metabolizing I think I have, I think there's at least five replacements for universal authority of truth. Um, the first is most obvious, which is tribal truth. You know, like, it's true, because your ceftin says, it's true. And we see that a lot, right. So that actually kind of rebuild authority of truth. That's just not universal truth. That's what your group leader is saying. Right? So that's a big thing on social media. On a second is iterative truth. So the next three, I'm going to talk about come from, I think, tech, so inner truth of the GitHub sense, where rather than put out a story and say it's capital T true, you know, like the New York Times, literally, The New York Times markets itself, as essentially infallible, neutral truth. Right. And, you know, like it runs it that ad campaign saying the truth isn't easy. The truth isn't this truth, isn't that right. And they published a fair number of just the flu, you know, pieces, by the way, you know, and then recently, they're like, you know, the truth is, it's not just the flu. And I just kind of laughed when I saw that, right. So I'm an alternative to saying the article is true. And how dare you question it is the Git or GitHub model where you put out some code, and you know, it's going to have bugs. And, you know, whereas in an East Coast model, or an academic model of retraction or correction is this huge black mark, right, that people will fight tooth and nail to avoid? Right, as you're aware, you know, folks will try to avoid that academia, they try to avoid that in journalism, a correction is like, ooh, you know, and it's like, you know, man, that was a humiliation for them, right? Um, by contrast, a pull request, you know, as somebody who files a bug, you know, an active project will have edits, and it will have issues and bugs and pull requests. There's nobody's ever in software, who will pretend to say, Oh, my code is always right. And it has no bugs, right. In fact, the whole thing is set up, recognizing that it's fallible and iterative. And so that's the second model of literature. Okay, it works well in the West Coast model to get a model. And

Unknown Speaker  39:41  
the problem is that

Unknown Speaker  39:43  
the

Unknown Speaker  39:46  
in the GitHub model, you have individual coders who are submitting code, and there is this concept of just a very basic level, whether or not the code should or should not run, does it run well. compile a lot of what we see in. And I guess the first thing you had was tribal truth, which I don't even want to call tribal truth. Maybe it's tribal strategy. Like don't don't contradict the quarterback. We're trying to win a game here, you know whether the quarterback is right or wrong, the quarterback is running the show. And so this could be like, well, the Democratic Party has chosen Joe Biden and our, our associated organs are behind him. What are you doing questioning Tara Reid and the fact that he's 77 years old. Like that's, that's a particular kind of a an issue, which is, you're going to break down the coherence of the system. I guess what, where I'm, I'm really driving with all of this biology is. I saw this with 2008. And I saw it with the seem of all people, which is when it was clear that the world had gotten this wrong, and that a tiny number of people have gotten it right. We did not promote those tiny number of people appropriately. So. And one of the things I find interesting in this situation, I'm just going to repeat myself. One of the things I find interesting the situations, I went through this a little bit with Nassim Taleb in 2008. And, you know, he was getting it right. And there was a small group of us who were very alarmed about the state of finance and the risks that were being swept under the rug, in particular, through well established metrics like value at risk. And what we found was is that the people who had been the big critics didn't become super prominent establishment figures, the establishment would rather deal with the failed people who screwed everything up a second time, a third time, a fourth time. Because it's really not about us improving as a society, it's about the fact that it's hard to profit. In in stagnant times, if you're not getting things wrong, like get getting things wrong is actually valuable, if what you're doing is transferring money between parties. So for example, when you print money, you can talk about it in terms of stimulus, much needed stimulus, we were determined to put a floor in the market, restore confidence, all of that is language for transferring wealth. We don't hear it as wealth transfers, and to your point about Bitcoin. What happens when I have a group of people who can transfer wealth by using a printing press? And they talk only in terms that are so abstract as to be lifeless, bloodless, meaningless?

Unknown Speaker  42:44  
Yeah, well, so. So I think two or three things I want to respond to there, which one is we can actually invert the so you know, there's, there's a line of argument, which I'm sympathetic to, which says, folks who are criticizing aren't building or rather, you know, if you're criticizing demand in the arena, it's always harder if you're the man in the arena, etc, right? And the answer to them, you're just,

Unknown Speaker  43:15  
it's a reference to Teddy Roosevelt's famous speech, if you don't

Unknown Speaker  43:19  
know exactly, that's right. That's right. So, you know, the, the answer to critics is actually pretty easy, which is, okay, go start your own company, right? Because the barrier to starting your own company is actually very low, you can just go out and incorporate it. And so I think that's a good response to the person who says, Oh, I could do so and so better than so and so CEO or whatever, like, you know, some people are really good. Some of those critics are actually talented people on and, and they could do better if they were in, but you only know for sure, if you actually go and make the leap, like many, many of us in tech, for example, are former academics, who, you know, may have grown up as critics until you put yourself in the driver's seat. And then you have to actually be both, by the way, as CEO or as a senior executive, you have to both be a big booster of, you know, the company and division and so and so forth, and your own harshest critic and write detailed reviews of Hey, we should have done x rather than why that kind of thing, right? Um, so applying that to this. The fundamental question is how do we exit these institutions and build alternatives? We can start a new company, but how can we start, for example, you know, a new FDA or equivalent, right? How can we start new see how to eventually start a new country? Those are, you know, how do we start new currency? Well, that one we've actually made some progress on right. And so then, you know, once you start a new currency, you know, if you notice the energy out of like, the anti fed stuff, it's like bitcoiners are laughing right? They're not like mad anymore. And the reason they're not mad is they they have the exit if they're right, they've got a bet which is very divergent from where I'm you know, Bernanke. And CO, we're in where, you know, the current Fed is right, they got a bet that's very divergent. And and they'll they'll do well in the event that, you know, they're correct. And they've been correct for the last, you know, at least 1000 X or 10,000. x up, right. So I think that's a real question is not so much how to get the critics into power within legacy institutions, but to empower them to build new institutions without too much interference from the legacy establishment. So go ahead,

Unknown Speaker  45:33  
this is where you and I obviously disagree. For those of you who are actually watching this, rather than listening to this Balaji looks like he's got a tremendous amount of money he showed up with practically a hoodie unshaved I'm still clearly trying to please my boss by wearing a jacket and shirt ridiculously indoors during quarantine. Okay, I disagree with this, I think that this is part of the West Coast fantasy that we can just do everything from our garages, and we can neglect the legacy stuff. And as you know, with something like Bitcoin, you know, if you think about gold, the dollar and Bitcoin, let's say is three example currencies. One of them is backed by violence, the dollar, one of them is backed by Quantum chromodynamics gold, and one of them is backed by elliptic curves or, you know, equivalent, you know, mathematics. And so, something backed by violence can choose to disagree with you in a very different way, could you could just make it very dangerous to hold Bitcoin. So there are all sorts of weird ways in which I don't think that this is played out, we don't really know how governments legacy structures will interact with new structures, I do believe in in not the who, but the who, when they say meet the new boss, same as the old boss, we will have definite problems that will be Bitcoin isn't going to get us out of all of our human stuff. It'll get us out of some of it. By but I guess what, what concerns me is, is that all the West Coast, people are so sick of the East Coast stuff, again, letting Western East stand for something that we should understand maintenance, right? was meant NIMS, I would say that the West Coast just says I don't want to deal with that East Coast, stuff gets boring, it kills all the fun, all profit is lost. It's so consensus driven, hierarchical, credential focused effort. And as a result, I feel like what's happened is that we've abandoned any hold that we might have in, let's say, the National Academy of Sciences, or the great universities, and we're not really creating these things. And we're still feeding. I mean, if I could just put one horrible spin on it. Burning Man is like a blast for one week, a year, and it makes fun of the default world. But all of the riches that are needed to run Burning Man are amassed in the default world and then plowed as treasure into this giant, weird celebration for one week. And I feel like the rest of us are in some weird ways, partially parasitic on the very institutions that we've allowed to be taken over.

Unknown Speaker  48:21  
So it's so let me let me give something to this argument, because I've actually been thinking about it more over the last few months in particular, which is, you know, from the standpoint of Corona, part of the reason that we're in the COVID-19 crisis, maybe the biggest part of the reason is that, you know, we just don't have people with scientific and engineering backgrounds in the press or the state. For the most part. You know, we have lawyers, we have, you know, liberal arts majors, we have accomplished character assassins, but we don't really have too many people who know, math or computer science or in this case, virology, bioinformatics genomics,

Unknown Speaker  49:02  
looked at the advanced degrees in Congress on Wikipedia.

Unknown Speaker  49:05  
It's all JTS. Right?

Unknown Speaker  49:07  
It's, it's beyond pathetic. I mean, just the idea that you would expect that the next president of the United States should be able to write a few lines of code. I just, we're just drawing from the complete wrong pools of people

Unknown Speaker  49:28  
write about this, it just isn't happy that way. Here's where let me give you a few different riffs on exit in this context, right? So 111 version of it is look at other countries, right? Like look at some of these different space. And so you can look at Lee Hsien Loong who's the Prime Minister of Singapore, and you know, he was a As you may know, like, the senior Wrangler at Cambridge so like an actual research mathematician caliber person in terms of IQ, but also could really execute you know, you posted a Sudoku solver. For example, on His, well, he could execute as prime minister. He's also very still very sharp. He posted a Sudoku solver on his Facebook page in c++ and knew, you know, two's complement and relatively obscure binary bit flipping type stuff, right. And there's, you know, other folks like, Tomas elves, who was the President, I believe, of Estonia, he was actually a critical figure that helped make Estonia You know, he dash joia, like an internet, you know, based country, right. Um, and I think he was a Princeton Princeton graduate and was familiar, and basically was kind of like a Bitcoin proponent in 2020, who was starting helping start a new country, it's because he was next to the Estonian heads of state that he could he could do that. So those are some examples of it doesn't have to be that way. You know, you have heads of state who are do have some technical skill. But so I definitely want to give something to your argument on which I agree with, which is that we cannot completely neglect. And so then how do we reconcile those, you know, take that thesis antithesis and come to a synthesis on something I think about a lot is like a kitty corner strategy. For example, Google, you know, went and built up its wealth initially in search. And after the built cash cow in search, then and only then did it decide to take on Microsoft on its home turf, with you know, first Gmail, you know, and then Google Docs and Sheets and so on. And it was a huge tech, I mean, that that battle is still being waged today. Right? Like, that would not have been the smart first thing for Google to do. They had to build up kind of their own thing first their cash cow before they went and engage more competitive markets. So so that's one option. I mean, there's something kind of like that happened with the United States as well, you know, it exited Europe, in seven, you know, like, actually not 1776 in the 1600s. And 1700s, eventually declared independence, fully exited. And then over 140 years, essentially built its strength had its own problems. And then, you know, by 1945, was stronger than almost every European country, right? And kind of came back in. And, you know, so that's the second example of kitty corner, you go to a Dagnall, you win in that Dagnall, you build your strength there, and then you come back. And, you know, today in with the, with what's what's happened, I think of, you know, to of course, you know, this, but maybe not all of your audience knows this. Founders Fund has this, you know, funny one liner, which is, we wanted flying cars, instead, we got 140 characters, right? And, you know, meaning, you know, where's the innovation of the future, we just have this messaging service and so on. But I have a feeling that social media and cryptocurrency are going to actually be the way that we do get that future. And the reason is, I think of them respectively as American glasnost being social media and American perestroika being cryptocurrency. Now, should I explain that for your viewers or you want to take it from there? Debbie, have you thought about that? No,

Unknown Speaker  53:06  
you can. You can do that.

Unknown Speaker  53:08  
Although I okay. I

Unknown Speaker  53:09  
am worried that right now we're in the COVID epic epidemic. And I think, you know, of course, I find cryptocurrency fascinating. I do think it's more speculative because of the different ways in which, you know, look, obviously, you've been, you've been very early on COVID. You've been early on Bitcoin, and a major proponent and all things blockchain. The concern that I have Balaji is that.

Unknown Speaker  53:39  
I don't know how.

Unknown Speaker  53:43  
I don't know how to reformat this conversation. Like, I know how to have this boring conversation with the East Coast. And I know how to have the wild eyed conversation with the West Coast. But sure, the thing that I'm looking to have as a conversation, it doesn't really sound like either one of those two. Sure. And it has to do with the following thing. Okay, so imagine that you've got like, more or less these two bad families, the Clintons and the bushes. Okay. And you know, it's like the Hatfields and the McCoys. And then maybe they're more similar to each other than, than we know. And, you know, of course, brock obama is somehow attached to the clinton family, whatever. But it's like, it's a little rich that we're going to take this most powerful of nations with all of its great universities, all of its culture. And in the space of like, 20 or 30 years, we're just gonna screw the whole thing up so much that we're talking about, like moving on to the blockchain. And we're gonna just, you know, hey, let the legacy institutions die. we've outgrown the new york times we've outgrown Harvard, we've outgrown political parties and countries. We should just be the, you know, electronic States of America. And it's just like, Whoa, we skipped a bunch of steps here, you know, at some level, we've got a really bad economic problem. And then we've got to what I view is relatively non productive strategies either continue to go to go with the bush Clinton stupidity, now represented by Biden and you know, weirdly, Trump, who obviously is, you know, not really coming out of the Republican Party. But it's all of this is like a reaction to how sick people are of the kleptocracy, you know, this geriatric kleptocracy. And then the other option is, well, let's make ourselves into a really large version of Estonia, because Lord knows, they've been forward thinking. And I guess I have the sense of, is there no one to have a more integrated conversation?

Unknown Speaker  55:59  
So yeah, I mean, I actually do think, I think my point of view maybe is more integrated in the sense of, for example, I believe in re centralization, I believe all progress happens along the z axis. And let me explain what I mean by that. You know, if you visualize like a clock, you know, you start a company, and it's like, one, one minute after midnight, you know, you're starting it as a solo person, and, and many people will die, you know, the company will die, you know, you know, before you get to the next milestone, but if you start making revenue, okay, more people join around 3pm, you go from just one person on the tundra to like a lean to the few people, then you start getting around to like six o'clock. And now you've got like a whole group of folks. And something crucial happens at this time, which is, your most important number goes from your on your burn rate to your bus number, it goes from basically every single person has to be indispensable to every single person must be dispensable. Because in the first stage, where you're coming up to product market, fit, and so on, you know, you need just these absolutely exceptional, unique, iconic, classic, crazy people. But then once you've built a machine where you need to scale it, actually, you don't want iconic classic people, or at least you have to be careful about it, since you need something where you can add 30 more engineers and get x more result, right. Like it has to be more kind of, you know, you put in people and you get a result, right. Um, and, and so then you you're led to, you know, or you put in, you know, customer service reps you put in, you know, drivers, if it's Uber, you know, you have some model that works like that. And then you get to a totally different thing, where now you're talking about bus number, and meaning how many people can get hit by bus before, you know, the system no longer works. And the bus number way of thinking about things starts making you think about folks as quote replaceable. Because if not, then you wouldn't be doing your job. If, if you had a company of you know, 400 people and 300 of them were essential, and they quit and your company would go to zero, you wouldn't be doing your job as CEO, it literally it's like required to make them redundant, in not in a bad sense, but redundant in the sense of if one of them goes down, the whole company doesn't go down, you're making the thing antifragile and intelligence. But then this is taken almost always too far, to the point that people do feel like cogs, they feel the redundancy, they feel the you know, de skilling, they feel the bureaucracy creeping up where the bureaucracy is basically, a substitute directory is not always bad. bureaucracy, at its best, is a substitute for the thought process of a very talented executive or CEO, like Bezos implements a process. And rather than him being there to manage that process every step of the way, he writes down instructions, and people follow that that's actually a functional bureaucracy, where it's like writing or code that scales a human beings judgment in such a way that it can scale across other human beings who don't maybe have the same level of judgment. That's why you have written policies and procedures, there's consistency, you know, customers get the same experience, then, of course, what happens is around nine past, you know, the hour, you start going into the degeneration mode, and the proxy stifles individual initiative to such a point that someone leaves to start their own company. And now it's 1201. Again, right. And that's the cycle that happens. And that's, you know, I'm not saying it's exactly someone leaving from A to start B, but that's IBM, to Microsoft to Google to Facebook. To then what's next, right? And I'd say in that, you know, guy for my being left charged, I am are seeing that progress happens along the z axis. If you think about this clock as turning right on, but each turn it's like a sending a helix, where it kind of goes on your string sound like on Wilburn spiral dynamics, but I don't know him. But but so this is just my mental model where it might seem circular that you know, the, the libertarian founder rebuilds the state, right? Right. Right. You know, because you start a company to get away from, you know, control And bureaucracy and so on. And then you find that you have to actually rebuild it to scale the company. Right? It's kind of a deep insight. Yeah. So

Unknown Speaker  1:00:07  
I like the helical model. Effectively, you know, the the premise of the portal is to find the way out of flatland. And if you're born into flatland, how do you learn about the z axis? And so the typical example that we like to give is that the square root of negative one is the question that can be posed in flatland that is on the real line, but forces you to invent the imaginary axis to solve it. So what's the problem? In fact,

Unknown Speaker  1:00:34  
one over one plus x squared is a great example of a function that, you know, it's defined everywhere along the real line, but the power series doesn't converge at, you know, plus one and minus one because there's poles that I and negative eyes so you can't even understand flatland, unless you understand its content.

Unknown Speaker  1:00:52  
Exactly. Right. Exactly. So yeah, I like all that. But Balaji. Look, one of the things that I want to get to is that I really enjoy our conversations, I find you to be one of the most generative people that I speak to just across many topics, I don't think you could possibly be right about everything that you're talking about. Because you have so many interesting different opinions on so many things, it's sort of statistically doesn't seem likely. But it's always like one of the most interesting perspectives in the room and always gets me thinking, I want to get back a little bit to the virus. And I'll have you back one one or more times after this to talk about whatever you want to do. But I want to get to a little bit of what I think you're doing, essentially right now. Sure, where the hell are we? It doesn't, I don't know how to say this to people. But this virus and it's our response to it is so bad that it's it's particularly crashing my operating system, I can't believe how lousy the explanations are, how completely willing people are to talk about flattening the curve, or social distancing, or when the vaccines will be ready. And like all of this strikes me as the kind of nonsense speak that I saw around the financial crisis, where you get people to pair it, whatever the phrase is that's repeated on television as if they understand it. I'm feeling like my IQ is plummeted to low two figures. what's going wrong with me? Why am I not functioning well, with the explanations that are being given? And how is it that you're functioning better? And I am legitimately not doing this to compliment you? I'm saying, I can't believe how badly I'm doing understanding this because I keep wanting to make contact with some grown up in some official position who makes sense, and I can't find a one?

Unknown Speaker  1:02:45  
Well, I think so first, you know, thank you for I think, I think the kind words, though, and, but but I'll tell you, I'll tell you at least my mental model, I wouldn't say that you're doing badly, or I'm doing well, or anything like that, at least my mental model on this. In an interesting sense, the world has actually receded such that we, we know we don't, or not everybody, but let's say smart people, like yourself, increasingly know what they don't know. And here's what I mean by that. So in one sense, the world has receded physically, where lots of people are now literally sitting in their rooms, right? They can't travel around the world, and you know, or even to their office or what have you, right. Um, but the second way in the world has receded is most of what we know about the world is mediated, right? You're a research scientist. I'm sure some of the folks listening are. And so you have discovered facts that are true of your own accord in in, you know, some discipline, right, you write a PhD thesis, or what have you, you know, or even just do any kind of research. It's kind of like that. Many people, this is what I call kind of like a pre headline person, a pre headline person, as opposed to a post headline person, a pre headline person is like a research scientist, or a founder or a journalist, or a politician, someone who has known about the facts known something to be true prior to being printed in a newspaper. And it seems like a very small thing, that's actually a big thing. Because it means that those people are responsible for discovering and disseminating new facts, right? Whereas a post headline person will not believe something until it's actually printed in a newspaper that they trust, your personal, you know, kind of statement to them that, hey, x is true. You know, they won't necessarily listen to it unless they believe in your authority from some other things, some other institutional position, okay. So, so in many senses, our domain has shrunken, but physically because we're in our rooms and mentally because all of these nodes who we trusted to give us information about things we're realizing that Those folks messed up. And so, you know, the signal they're giving today? Well, yesterday, they were basically saying, Oh, this thing has nothing to worry about. It's just a flu. Um, you know, don't wear a mask. Now you have to wear a mask, like these contradictions are so obvious and coming so quickly, that we are forced to realize that those folks are extremely fallible human beings and not Oracle's, you know, it's not the institution said, it's not the New York Times head or the Washington Post said, it's this guy said, you know, or this girl said, you know, this person said, right. And so I think that's, you know, the first step is soul excuse, hey, you know, if the first step is in community organization is disorganization on? I think the first step in understanding is not understanding, having it all be a jumble, right? And at least what I'm doing is I'm leaning on, you know, you're training in physics. I know, I know, something of physics, you know, certainly, I'm not going down to elementary particle level. But um, I do know, genomics and I know, bioinformatics and I know, diagnostics and know how to read biomedical papers. So, you know, that's also mediated, of course, but it doesn't make the pretense it doesn't it didn't have the pretense of being capital T truth. It's here some researchers, we put out something we believe it to be true. And you can contest it within the domain, you can it's legitimate to contest it, you know, in a in biomedical research. And so leaning on those, you know, that that gives me some information, maybe more maybe maybe oriented. I would also say from two other standpoints. Um, as part of the earlier part of our conversation, I think, discipline wise, or I don't know, I'm sure call it mentally or dispositional. II rather, that's better from it from a dispositional standpoint, I expect authority to fail. I already knew the state was going to fail. The extent to which it failed is kind of interesting. But like the mat, the the direction and magnitude was not 1000. Next off from what I expected. I think for those who did not expect that, or who found it to be 1000 off, go ahead.

Unknown Speaker  1:07:11  
I expect institutional failure. I think about it all the time I talk about all the time, the magnitude of this institutional failure caught me by surprise.

Unknown Speaker  1:07:22  
And that's fair, that's fair. I don't say you know, like, this is something where the the permanent bureaucracy failed FDA, CDC, international organizations, like who failed, the elected government failed. The unelected government, meaning the career bureaucrats, you know, they failed on state and local, you know, the the mayor of New York, you know, like, etc. and legacy press failed. And, and the military, frankly, has failed. Like, the only thing you know, I was tweeting about this, but basically, by defense, since anthrax was something that billions of dollars has been allocated for

Unknown Speaker  1:07:56  
why can I talk about the Wu Han lab?

Unknown Speaker  1:08:01  
You will. So that's actually now come back within? I'd say the somewhat mainstream to discuss. Oh, sorry, I can talk about it again. Yeah. Right. Right. Like, like so. So with the Wu Han lab, um, just to touch on that for a second. You know, it is certainly the case. Let's say we've got two hypotheses, or I mean, there's there can be k hypotheses, frankly, and you want to distinguish between them, right? Um, it is certainly the case that there have been deadly natural viruses and infectious diseases in general that have arisen before the age.

Unknown Speaker  1:08:37  
I can see where you're going. I don't I don't want to do it that way. Let me let me phrase it. I don't know. Let me say that because I don't want to waste time. Put showing that we're not crazy people. Obviously, we're not crazy. No, it's it's a tax that I don't want to pay biology. That's the thing is I don't want to Willis acts of saying, Well, of course. You know, nobody's saying x. nobody's saying y by the time we get done with the recitations of what nobody's saying, you know, our time will be over.

Unknown Speaker  1:09:06  
So I guess by my nature, when I have the time to do it, I I like to be I like to be precise in those in the statements that I feel that there's uncertainty about right. So let me give the other side of it. Why is it I think it's plausible that it was naturally occurring. I also think it is plausible or certainly not impossible, that, um, you know, the, the, there's a there's a scientist singly, she who works in Wu Han, who had co authored papers by with a guy named Ralph barrack, who, which were on gamma function research in Coronavirus is

Unknown Speaker  1:09:43  
a North Carolina lab head.

Unknown Speaker  1:09:46  
That's right. Uh, and by the way, I'm not like attacking this person or anything like that. I'm just saying that it was published research that is on essentially making, can we just

Unknown Speaker  1:09:55  
not spend our time saying what we're not saying.

Unknown Speaker  1:09:59  
I know, I know, but I But I just want to say that like, you know,

Unknown Speaker  1:10:03  
let me ask you a stat. Okay, so

Unknown Speaker  1:10:05  
there's a giant asterisk. Balaji is a smart guy, not saying any of the stupid stuff you're going to try to ascribe to him. Like it was synthetically engineered by a weapon let loose by a rogue fashion of the Chinese Communist Party. Like, yes. He's not saying any stupid thing. I don't want to waste our time on.

Unknown Speaker  1:10:24  
Sure. Sure. Sure. Sure. So, so what do I think but but I think it is just given the context. So I think it's important to be precise about what what I think it could have been. I think it could have been that, um, you know, because SARS hit China in 2003, that folks were studying SARS viruses or SARS related viruses. And something got out on someone's shoe. That's very possible. where, you know, you you were doing experiments. I mean, there's a there's a coronavirus from bats in United province, there's published on GenBank. That is 96% sequence homology to the the source code to the COVID-19 girl horseshoe

Unknown Speaker  1:11:06  
bat, Ana from some cave.

Unknown Speaker  1:11:08  
Yeah, though, however, however, there there later pangalan Drive sequences are republished that have even higher homology. And in theory, so one of the things I always think about in this is, what do I know to be true? For sure? And what can I go and check for myself if I was willing to spend enough time and money, right? And, in theory, okay, if you had somebody on the ground in China, China's a big place, there's going to be somebody who you could collaborate with or pay or what have you to go and capture some I mean, I'm not sure too many people would want to do this. Okay. But they could, you know, go and capture some bats or pangolins, with whatever local regulations that are around that, and sequence them. Right. That is a that is a conceivable experiment. You could do,

Unknown Speaker  1:11:56  
right, this is not an answer to the question.

Unknown Speaker  1:11:59  
No, so it does, it does, because what you want to do is you want p of y given x, right, or P of H given D, right? probability of hypothesis given data. And the thing for example, like I was saying about what could falsify or prove

Unknown Speaker  1:12:14  
biology, you're going down a different path? Like my question is different. My question is, there is no way that the Wu Han lab should be discounted at this point. We don't have enough information to suggest that no one should bring up the Wu Han lab because of concerns about racism or concerns about

Unknown Speaker  1:12:38  
Yeah, but that so that, yeah.

Unknown Speaker  1:12:42  
Where I'm having a different issue, which is, I didn't I'm not trying to tell you what the probability is. I'm not trying to say where it originated. And I'm trying to say what I think and don't think I get very nervous when somebody removes one of the choices and says don't Yeah, right. And so the issue that I'm having is, that's bad scientifically. When somebody says, well, only bad people think that the Wu Han lab might be involved. It's like, Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, something broke down. Because that should be a live hypothesis. And that shouldn't carry stigma. If you're saying, well, definitely, you know, it's, it's the Chinese are just trying to get us you know, they're trying to take our stuff that that would be stupid. But saying, hey, we've got a pretty significant lab doing research pretty closely related to this topic. And it could be anything from an accident to somebody was trying to grow. Let's imagine trying to grow Corona virus. Bet you know, back Coronavirus, tissue and human lungs and cadaver tissue you don't know. And it's not a question. Let

Unknown Speaker  1:13:51  
me think you've been asked.

Unknown Speaker  1:13:54  
finishes finisher.

Unknown Speaker  1:13:55  
Okay. Okay, go ahead check.

Unknown Speaker  1:13:56  
And the instant you start talking about this, you get these really weird comebacks, which is like, I don't think anybody smart thinks that this was engineered from first principles in a lab and released as a bio app. And you're saying, Well, yeah, nobody said that. So why is it that that's what you're responding to? Like that you can feel that there's a force field around the issue of Is there a more significant Chinese responsibility and falsifying data, controlling the who disguising the origins that they know about this virus? And why are we participating in some thing to aid China? I don't understand what why is the US leadership so courteous to these people? The Chinese Communist Party?

Unknown Speaker  1:14:46  
Well, okay, so I think there's there's a few interlocking things there. The first is, you know, should a legitimate shot scientific hypothesis be shamed out of public debate? I don't think so. Um, the second is is. And this is this is somewhat difficult, but let me see if I can get there. You know, you've graded math exams, you've graded physics exams, almost certainly, right? If if somebody gets the right answer, and they just circle at the bottom, but they don't show their work, or they get the right answer, and they just put pie down there or whatever, and it just happens to be right, but they're all their steps are wrong, right? Um, then that usually doesn't get credit, right. And I think there were a number of folks, at least in January, who were throwing around things like, Oh, it's like an HIV infused, you know, sequence and so, and, and because of that, because those were just kind of, that's like, being in the direction of it coming from a lab. That's not the same as it. But it was just like, noise and dumb and bad, and, and wrong, because like, basically, if you went and looked at the sequences in blast, which is, which is like Google for DNA sequences, or RNA or protein sequences, right, you look at it in blast, and you could see, actually, no, it wasn't similar to HIV sequences at all. That was that was a spurious kind of assertion, right? And, and so I think it is in the presence of that noise, that chaff that is incumbent upon those who are correct to look like signal, not just be signal but look like it, you know, like the whole thing about Caesar's wife and so on, right. So that's why I try to be careful, the more controversial it is, the more accomplished

Unknown Speaker  1:16:28  
in that misunderstanding, the impulse to being careful, that's not what I'm talking about, when I'm talking about is, and this is, this is really hard on me. In essence, the way I'm seeing this is, is that I'm trying to stand up for a missing position. Once upon a time, we had top people, professors, you know, people would be virologists who would get up and they would say something approximating the truth. You know, like, we can't know this. These are the available hypotheses based on this information. I'm leaning this way. We can't rule anything out. Here, we don't have that we've got this very different sort of a thing, which is what's confusing me, which is I'm not, I'm not used to the Surgeon General sounding like a goddamn moron.

Unknown Speaker  1:17:18  
No, no, no, I'm not I'm, yeah, I'm not

Unknown Speaker  1:17:21  
used to reporters. I like, you know, it's just watching this old video of Richard Threlkeld in the Vietnam jungle getting shot at with his platoon he was covering, you know, and like my old notion of reporters is that they're fairly heroic. And my new notion is, is that they just don't, they sometimes hate the people, they're covering so much that they don't pay attention to reality. They just try to contradict whatever it is that they hate. They're jealous of powerful people in politics. They're jealous of rich people in San Francisco. They're jealous of beautiful people, you know, somewhere else. And so it's just like, okay, fine, let's just trash people. That's my job. So I wasn't used to the idea that I couldn't turn to the Surgeon General and say, Stop lying to me, or, you know, this is gonna come out on YouTube. And now I've got a problem. I'm building a channel on YouTube. And the CEO of YouTube says, We won't allow videos that contradict the wh o and my jaws on the floor, like, Are you an American? Or Who are you? And do we just have to nationalize YouTube? Do we have to?

Unknown Speaker  1:18:34  
So that's exactly the wrong approach, by the way? No, because

Unknown Speaker  1:18:37  
you're gonna, you're gonna say blockchain, but just

Unknown Speaker  1:18:40  
put the bottle I'm not gonna I'm not gonna just gonna say it for Let me explain why. The issue is, um, the entire impulse that YouTube has there, in terms of let's give in to the centralized political authority, because the only one we have is the same one that says, oh, nationalizing will make it better. No, it's going to make it worse. It's going to just basically make it political truth, again, right? Even worse now. Because now it's like the national outlet of this, it basically becomes like the Chinese state controlled media module. It's not like I

Unknown Speaker  1:19:11  
disagree with you in the sense that I'm trying to say, I'm standing up for a position, like what you're saying. There are three versions of crazy here and I want to talk about all three of them. There's Balaji crazy, where the idea is that we all move our lives onto the blockchain, and

Unknown Speaker  1:19:32  
it's a caricature, I want to come back

Unknown Speaker  1:19:34  
here and get some caricature all three of them. Sure. Okay. So I'm not being fair to any one of us, and I will be merciless to my parents off. Okay. So the biology version of craziness is Hey, don't you understand we can retreat into our garages. We can have sex with tardigrades and we can form government on the blockchain. And as long as we take enough no tropix everything's gonna be awesome. Okay, that's the California version and you are being saddled. With that, then there's the Eric version, which is equally, if not more embarrassing. Hey, I once saw some functional institutions when I was growing up, even though that they've all since been allowed to fall into disrepair and we have lunatics heading all of them, I still think that we can get things back together so that we can trust the CDC and the Surgeon General. And if we can only get our people in office, and by the way, we're running, running Biden against Trump, a 74 year old versus a 77 year old, which is completely insane. But nevertheless, in 2028, everything will be fine. Then there's like the establishment position, which is like, okay, we're wrong, every four seconds, we contradict ourselves constantly, everyone can see that we're lying, more or less 24. Seven, but hey, you're all still forced to pay attention because these institutions still matter. Because ultimately, it's all backed by guns. Okay, so we've got one guy backed by the blockchain, one guy backed by nostalgia and one guy backed by, you know, firearms.

Unknown Speaker  1:21:02  
So the first one is exit exit the system. The second is fix the system. And the third is system isn't broke. Right now, I think there's a synthesis of these, which is, there are certain aspects of the system that people will need to reinvent, the system does need to be fixed, but it can't be fixed in a down the middle way. That's too far to find a route, you have to go kitty corner, you need a creative approach that is different, right? And I'll give several examples of reform that has happened by going kitty corner, right, and you know, even by kitty corner going to a diagonal rather than straight ahead. Okay. So one was the example I mentioned, where Google went and made money in search. And then it went and attacked Microsoft, right? Um, the biggest example, you know, that's like, civilizational example that we've had recently is the internet opening up and giving us this digital frontier, where you could build without a license, you know, and that, that metaphor becomes more than a metaphor when you talk about not just Minecraft, but VR, and so on like that, that domain name where you can build, and you have complete authority to do so is the opposite of what happens in the offline world where you cannot build without a permit. And without this and without that, right. And the this reopening of the frontier is this meta game, which has sucked a lot of talent out of DC, because now there's an option, you know, to go into tech, not just DC, but pulled pulled talent out of academia and out of journalism, and out of even Hollywood, frankly, Boston, New York and Washington, DC. It's a good, exactly. That's right. That's right. And so in a sense, the fact that the frontier exists and that people have moved to this digital frontier has, in turn, weaken legacy institutions. So it's kind of this, you know, double whammy of minus one for them and a plus one for for the frontier. And, you know, another third example is, you know, cryptocurrency, right, rather than Satoshi going down the middle, and trying to get a meeting with the IMF or the World Bank to say, hey, let's start a new currency. You know, one that you can't print, you know, had he done the down the middle kind of thing. First, he probably wouldn't have gotten a meeting and he got I mean, he would have been laughed out of the room. Right. And so a new

Unknown Speaker  1:23:15  
you know, that I tried to get prime brokerage for Bitcoin in 2010.

Unknown Speaker  1:23:20  
Wow, really? Okay. So you were ahead of the curve? Well, yeah,

Unknown Speaker  1:23:22  
but I'm sure I stopped, we couldn't get anyone to take it seriously. So it's not like I bought a hard drive and just loaded it up with Bitcoin.

Unknown Speaker  1:23:30  
Exactly. That's right. So this is also related. I mean, there's so many other examples of this, you know, for example, in 2020, um, Google and Apple and so on, they still don't have TV channels, but they do have Apple TV and YouTube and iTunes, and, you know, so on, right, it was literally easier to build and scale the Internet, and get it to people's houses than it was for them to go and wrestle with, you know, television come, you know, like the entire licensing complex around television. Right. And so, I think that is yet the reform happened, right? It just wasn't, you didn't attack the Maginot Line head on. You know, you recognize it was imagined a line and you figured out how to go around? Yeah. Um, now, if the flip side of this to bring up dimensional line point in a different way. When you talk about how you've been, like, amazed by like, what's happened in the US, unfortunately, and you know, this is this is actually something I do not think most people have realized. America has been invaded and defeated by the Coronavirus. And that is the first successful invasion of America in modern times. I think like the war of 1812 is like the last time, you know, the British burned the White House like serious, you know, kind of foreign damage on American soil. I mean, obviously, there's Pearl Harbor, right, but, like the continental United States has been so safe for so long. that there has never been like a foreign occupier. And you know what, what happened is this virus basically bypassed the Atlantic in the Pacific and bypass the nuclear umbrella and all the aircraft carriers, it bypassed all of that to go and kill like almost 80,000 Americans sick and a bunch more. And we basically lack you know, whether it's the military, whether it's our regulatory bureaucracy, where it's simple lack of like, the the people to get the thing under control. We, we lack the ability to stop this. And so right now, what is happening is, um, you know, like, the country is essentially negotiating, it shouldn't say negotiate, it's essentially an unconditional surrender to the virus. Because like, for example, the concept of Hey, everyone's going to get it. herd immunity, that's basically throwing oneself on the mercy of God, because it's not at all clear that everyone's going to have her, you know, immunity to this virus that's lifelong. Other coronaviruses for example, have you needed only drops off? You know, after two or three years, there's like a paper on that. Um, so it's not clear that letting everybody get it means that they won't be able to get it again in the future. It may just be that letting everybody get it makes this like a almost like a temperate malaria. You know, it's just endemic in the region. And it just takes a toll every year. You know, people have talked about this being like the fifth endemic coronavirus, and it becomes, you know, cold and flu and COVID-19 season, not just cold and flu season. And so, you know, the Maginot Line concept is one I think about a lot in this context, where basically the entire 20th century establishment interestingly, by the way, the other entity major entities that have been invaded by the Coronavirus, the ones who have been doing the worst are the other NATO countries, you know, UK, like France, Italy, Spain, Germany, and Russia. So the folks who are squaring off in the 20th century, have basically been invaded and defeated by you know, the Coronavirus so far. And when I say defeated, like, the occupation is is going to begin and, and that's not going to be pleasant people are fooling themselves and think it's going to be pleasant not gonna be pleasant. Anyway, I got on that, because, you know, we're just kind of talking about magic lines and moving around them. But recognizing that something that seems impregnable isn't if you change, you know, your your your mode, is, I think really important, your change your change your point of view, go ahead,

Unknown Speaker  1:27:24  
well, so I sort of like this.

Unknown Speaker  1:27:30  
But I also feel like,

Unknown Speaker  1:27:36  
I feel like I don't even understand where we are. And maybe the idea of biology that I want to entertain is is that I have a certain kind of weakness of mind that I'm very good at opposing institutions. Because I know how they work. But I'm not used to an institution being this wrong. Like blatantly You know, when I start seeing science and nature talking about things that are completely insane in social justice theory, and I just think like, okay, whatever this thing is, it's broken through to science and nature, it's invaded Harvard, Princeton, Rockefeller University. This inability to think, seems to be attacking everything institutional. And I would really say that that's the major thing that invaded us. It wasn't the virus because, you know, right. Right. What's really invaded us is that everything institutional is playing host to this particular kind of establishment stupidity at the moment. And there, in the old days, we had Noam Chomsky is inside of the establishment. Now we're down to like our last Noam Chomsky. So it used to be that it was very tough for everything to go this dumb, because of the number of smart iconoclasts who sat in official chairs. And like, what I see now is that effectively, there are no people who are willing to stand up and say, This is insanity.

Unknown Speaker  1:29:08  
Well, so here's a couple of thoughts on that. I mean, I think that in terms of history, a comparable period, in some ways is, I mean, the Cultural Revolution, you know, from 66 to 76, was much more violent than, you know, the recent wokeness in the US, there are some similarities in sense that I'm judging law, for example, which is like the Chinese MIT was literally occupied by rival gangs of, you know, machine gun toting students and, you know, they were shooting each other over some point of, you know, mouse theory, right. boeken woker, basically over there. Right. And I think a very important thing for folks to understand actually, Dalio had a very similar comment like he had a similar I think mental model. Nobody has lived through anything like this in the US. But people have in history, and they have in other places. And that's, that's what's useful to really read, like the history of other places and other times, obviously histories of other times but you know, meaning non American history. And, you know, many of the folks who have landed in the US whether, you know, from South America or from, you know, Central America or Iran, Russia, Eastern Europe, India, China, Korea, etc, etc, have been leaving economic or political instability, often communism, or in the case of India socialism, or in the case of Iran, Islamic fundamentalism, and they've been part of functioning societies, like, you know, Cuba, for example, under Battista was, you know, a flawed, but actually relatively well off country. And then it all just went completely to hell. Right. Same with, you know, so many countries, like, you know, when when communist revolutions come to town, they can go from decent levels, you know, like Venezuela, for example, prior to, you know, Chavez bow to, you know, starvation. And so other places have seen that kind of fall. And, you know, like, how far do we have to fall? We have, we still have a ways to go. And I think that it's useful to think about these other countries and figure out how bad it could get, but why don't we come back to that point? Go ahead.

Unknown Speaker  1:31:38  
So

Unknown Speaker  1:31:38  
I, yeah, look, I don't want this to be, we can explore why we're getting knocked over by a feather. But maybe what I'd rather do is to use the COVID situation and your different lens on it, to ellika to illustrate sort of where we are. So the kind of here's some of the questions that are on my mind. Sure. What is the real end game of this? Where are we really, when when people are talking about reopening back to normal? I have the feeling that almost none of this stuff makes sense. And, you know, my take on flatten the curve was that we were caught with our with our pants down with respect to preparedness. And so we were trying to avoid deaths of accountability, which would be triage deaths. So then, you know, the issue was that the limbo bar was so low because we didn't want people dying to show that we were completely incompetent. So everybody should stay home so that we don't have deaths due to triage, as opposed to deaths due to the coronavirus. I believe that a lot of what we're hearing in terms of how we're going to come back or when there's going to be a vaccine. Nobody really knows when there's going to be a vaccine, or how that what that's going to look like, what is the grown up mature perspective on the possible scenarios to jords normalization.

Unknown Speaker  1:33:12  
So I think the current mature perspective is on a virus is actually serious. And I can go into why. Basically, it's not just mortality, the mortality is quite high. But it's morbidity that a lot of people are actually getting sick for weeks or even months. And and that doesn't show up in death statistics.

Unknown Speaker  1:33:37  
So let's just pause there because I think this is super important. So Balaji, here's something that you could really do that would I think, be very helpful to me. I would like to understand what are the basic scenarios that may be playing out? If If our public officials were able to speak to us truthfully, what would they be saying if if if political economy in our relationship with China and issues having to do with questions about preparedness, and our supply chains weren't deranging everything? What do you think the various scenarios are more or less in terms of the universality classes of what might happen next?

Unknown Speaker  1:34:20  
So, maybe I'll say something you may not agree with, which is, I think, for being like truthful, you know, in the public square, folks would say, you know, in main dimensions America is actually behind. It thinks it's ahead, but it's behind, which is similar to, you know, blockbuster or Barnes and Nobles or blackberry or other, you know, like once powerful entities that were disrupted by something that they didn't, they didn't see coming or didn't understand. And what this virus has done is basically, it has shown that America can't physically innovate anymore or at At least cannot do so quickly enough or at on any scale above an individual or corporate level, it can't coordinate at the level of a town or a city, or a state, let alone a country. And it can blow things up in other places, but building is harder than blowing something up. And so first thing is America is actually behind. I actually, you know, it's funny, I did a Twitter poll on this for what that's worth, you know, it's not a representative sample, but it's, it's really a survey of the folks who are kind of in my, you know, my following or what have you. And I said, um, is America a ahead, be behind or see tied with China for in physical innovation? And, or others China had and 51% said China was ahead in this little, you know, non scientific poll for what it's worth again, but just of folks who are in tech, and of folks who would follow me on Twitter, or what have you. And, you know, the other question I asked, was, a, it's a kind of two part question a, are you an American or not? And B, do you think the US is still the world's undisputed number one superpower, and again, about, so roughly about half of the American said, it is, and half isn't. And same for the rest of the world, those that maybe about, like 55, or 6040, for the Americans, and maybe 4555 for the rest of the world. And so I think these are things which, if you're, if you're being honest with us, you want to start thinking about it in terms of, like, a great company, or a great country that missed a few steps. And that is not as far as ahead as people think. And that, you know, that could could, you know, fall further and maybe will fall further, you're given the corona crisis, and, and needs to realize that it needs to rebuild. So, and I think, like just saying that, I don't The problem with this is, people will not receive a dispassionate analysis of strengths and weaknesses as constructive criticism, they'll say, Oh, my God, why do you hate this? or hate that? Why do you hate the country or this, that's, that's not at all, where it's coming from, to great country, it's given, you know, like my family, and you know, a lot of people a lot. Um, however, you know, it's kind of like Japan before the Meiji Restoration, or China before Deng Xiaoping fixed it, or, you know, the Soviet Union in the 80s, in some way. So no, I'm not saying that the US is as bad as the Soviet Union, or Mao's China. or, or, frankly, you know, Microsoft under Steve bomber, it's basically in a stagnation that it needs to get out of, and Peter has talked about this. But it's now very clear, the consequence of not being able to innovate in the physical world is led to this. That's one of the big things. The second big thing is the smart people, folks with technical and scientific ability are simply not steering the ship. In this you have, you know, that you asked, okay, which official is going to give a straight answer? Those folks don't have the technical ability to give a straight answer. Um, it's, it's not like, you know, you're on the board. And you can tell us the CEO, hey, give me the figures on X, Y, and Z by W date. Right? Like, you can, you can expect a tech CEO to be on top of their metrics, because they have to be to survive as a company. But, you know, our current government of the United States is not like the founder CEO. It's not the person who inherited from them. It's not the third generation. It's like, you know, the the 14th generation, you know, for example, the mayor of New York wouldn't be able to build the NYPD from scratch, you know, but somebody did at some point. They did staff that unit, and they gave it tasks. And they, you know, they they figured out the esprit de corps and, and, you know, rules have no rules.

Unknown Speaker  1:39:01  
And if Kennedy wasn't one of our founding fathers, nor was Franklin Delano Roosevelt,

Unknown Speaker  1:39:06  
right, but but the thing is that, at a certain point, when you go enough generations, you lose that. Right enough.

Unknown Speaker  1:39:14  
When enough generations it was still working.

Unknown Speaker  1:39:18  
Yeah, but but it's not anymore.

Unknown Speaker  1:39:20  
I agree with I mean, I, I see us as dying from a very mysterious ailment, which is that we got to bad generations that do not give a shit about the future and are not smart enough or honest enough to recognize that what they're doing is stealing from their own children.

Unknown Speaker  1:39:36  
You know, FDR put some of that stuff in place, right, social security and whatnot. And, you know, there's there's a saying that there's a great deal of Ruin in a nation. And I agree there's a great deal of Ruin in a nation that's from it's like in Britain, someone's someone said to a prime minister, oh, this will be or to someone in government and if it's the Prime Minister, someone in government, oh, this will be the ruin of the nation. And You turn to the guy. And he said very wisely. Well, there's a great deal of Ruin in a nation meaning Calm down, hold your horses, like, lots of stuff breaks, but you know, we'll figure it out. But here's the thing, there's a great deal of Ruin in a nation, but not an infinite amount, you could well say that Cuba was ruined by, you know, the Castro's revolution, or that Iran was, you know, ruined for for a generation by, you know, the the Islamic Revolution, um, countries do get messed up. And it's, it's one of these things where, you know, if you were wanting to be really provocative about it, and yeah, and this is to see where things land up in a few years, you could say, 1492 to 2020, you could say, basically, this is the first time that the number one power of the world is a western country that has sort of been invaded and defeated, you know, like, they say, like Portugal, Spain, the UK, France, Russia, and then the United States. On the number one, you know, we're in some cases tied for number one powers in the world. I have been Western for a long time. And you can argue Russia, Eastern, you know, or Western that people always argue about its identity in that way. But, um, you know, now it's something where it's no longer I think, the undisputed number one. And if you want to regain that, first, you have to realize that you don't have it anymore. You can't You can't just like declare victory mission accomplished over Corona, while rampaging through the country, and, and there's green zones in other countries, you have to realize that actually, it's good.

Unknown Speaker  1:41:36  
Let's get back to scenarios that the virus will take, and then we'll come back to whether or not the real issue is that our leaders aren't smart enough to deliver information about spike proteins are something you know,

Unknown Speaker  1:41:50  
it's it's not just technical ability, though, that's the thing is, that's easy to quantify. It's also like managerial ability and leadership ability, like people are selected, you know, like elections, select for people who are good actors, not necessarily good leaders. And, you know, you can you can play active being, you know, a mayor or a governor or a leader of some kind, as opposed to someone right. But let's so

Unknown Speaker  1:42:14  
let's assume that there's some issue that maybe somehow we don't have people smart enough to convey news from experts to the general public. But I don't want to get infinitely caught up in that. What am I not getting about this virus?

Unknown Speaker  1:42:33  
Like, what do we know about this virus? I'm sorry? What am I not getting?

Unknown Speaker  1:42:35  
What are the likely scenarios for how we get to something where people aren't asking, Can I come out of my house yet? I mean, obviously, at some level, it could become normal that everybody shelters and plays ad infinitum, it could become normal that we just say, efit, and we throw caution to the wind, and we all go, you know, to on spring break in Florida, it could be that we come up with some sort of manage titration, where we titrate back into the world, but nothing ever goes back to the way it was, what are the most likely scenarios that a competent and honest government would be able to level with us about if that was where we were with a smarter population and smarter government to boot?

Unknown Speaker  1:43:20  
So, you know, first thing I would say is, I think, you know, if you It's very, there's a great website called and coronavirus.org, by guys out of the Northeast, I think, you know, I think their affiliate with Harvard, um, and it basically shows that many countries have managed to get the virus under control, basically, you know, through a combination of not just lockdown, but central quarantine testing, border control, what does it mean to get the virus under control? Two things, it means number one, that daily new cases are either zero or very close to that. And that's, by the way, the explicit goal of the head of New Zealand, just an art in the Prime Minister of Singapore, is to get new cases to zero, number one, and then number two, to keep the arty reproduction number below one in the event that it does arise again. And so basically, keep it down and have it stay down. Right. And for that to happen, you need to have, like, not just a coordinated society. But a coordinated state, you know, you need both citing the state to work together. There's some exceptions to this. I would say maybe I shouldn't say need. Hong Kong is arguably a counter example where people will say a society did it but the state didn't, right. Um, but I think the first thing is it is possible to get the virus under control. It is not an inevitability that it goes to 100% I think is an important point. Now, one can counter argue as to Okay, how expensive is it to do that forever, right? Will these green zones be able to keep themselves green? And I kind of think they will, or at least many of them will. Because once you've gotten cases down to zero, and you're sort of woke to the virus, and you've set up your defenses, I can get into what those defenses are technologically in society, because I don't think people in the West have really followed it too much. Should I talk about that? Okay, so, um, here's, here's just some of the things, folks, and you might want to talk about green zones?

Unknown Speaker  1:45:30  
Talk about this? Yeah, well,

Unknown Speaker  1:45:31  
let me define it. Right. So so a green zone is a place with comprehensive testing, that has no new cases, in, let's say, the last two weeks, okay, you could change the time parameter, you could say, four weeks or something. But conceptually, that's right. And it also keeps the virus from coming back up. So the reproduction number stays below one in the event that there is a flare, a red zone is everywhere else. And there's degrees of green and red. And essentially, the new developed world and developing world, I think, is going to be green zones and red zones. And that is to say talent, and capital will prefer to be in green zones, and to avoid or get out of red zones if they if it can. And and the reason for that is several fold. First is like the you know, and this premise, which I'm surprised that I still have to argue it in May, but the virus is serious. And, you know, at first you might think, oh, look at the death counts. Of course, people would agree it's serious. But people will throw up various, in my view spurious objections, the most, I think intelligent objection is, yes, there's 80,000 deaths in the US, there's hundreds of thousands of deaths worldwide, but they're concentrated in older people. And people have pre existing conditions. And therefore, you know, much of the population isn't at risk. So let them out of lockdown go back to work. It's not a big deal, right? For most people, my counter argument to that would basically be all right. Other countries locked down with just one component of what they did. It was it was an important component, but the US surgeon a cargo got locked down. Number two is the there's a lot of folks, we don't know the exact number, but there's many folks under age 50 have had very serious conditions that are not lethal, they're not dead. They may not always be hospitalized, but they're serious. And, you know, whether you want to believe who are not who reported like something like 90% of people have a severe or critical condition, whereas 80% are mild. Um, if that maps to the experienced severity that folks, you know, that I've that I've seen people I know have had very severe cases. They're not dead. They're not hospitalized, but it's the worst illness they've had in their lives. They've had very long convalescence is, you know, weeks to months, like eight weeks or so, are they permanent on this? Right?

Unknown Speaker  1:47:54  
Are they permanently impaired? For example, lung tissue, never comes back?

Unknown Speaker  1:47:59  
Great question. So I tweeted on this in March, actually, on SARS, and MERS, there are studies so there's a group out of UCLA and I think David Geffen School of Medicine, UCLA and USC to publish a paper saying, We need longitudinal monitoring of people who have recovered from COVID-19, to see if they have permanent lung damage, because some a good chunk of folks would SARS and MERS did. So, you know, the thing about the long term is we'll only know it in the long term. But I do think we should be doing longitudinal studies of patients. We should be quantifying morbidity better, not just mortality, yes, we need to know death statistics across demographics, very important. But we also need to know things like self reported severity, duration of illness, length of convalescence, meaning recovery after illness, on self reported recurrence of symptoms. And, you know, then things like CT scans, like at, you know, 30 and 60, and 90 day intervals and other kinds of things like, do are people getting back. And here's the issue is, even if it's just a series, and I say just in quotes, but just a very serious illness, which, um, knocks out, you know, with some probability healthy 30 and 40 year olds for eight weeks or 10 weeks. That's something where, you know, if, if you had a choice, you would avoid an area where you could get that very easily. Your team would avoid an area, they would not, you'll not be able to recruit people to such a city very easily if they had a choice of an equivalent job somewhere else. And so, you know, what would, what that does is it turns you know, the first thing in real estate from location, location, location to infection, infection, infection, it's deeper than that as well. People think oh, you know, and the Lock downs but and lock downs doesn't buy its own bring back the market. One way of thinking about it is, you know, we earlier we made the analogy to an invasion, right invasion by a virus, there's another analogy I'm going to give, which is in terms of a public utility, um, our society is explicitly premised on electrical power. That is to say, you know, there's there's power outlets for, for all kinds of stuff. And if the power goes out, we wouldn't tell people Oh, just bolt through it, right? Because you need to charge your computer. And you know, you can't tell a restaurant, oh, just bolt through it. If their oven doesn't work, they're not gonna be able to serve too many customers, maybe they can cobble a salad together, but they're operating way below capacity, they won't be able to, you know, handle any apps, their demand will be way down. And lots of ways people won't be able to get there. And they won't be able to serve them supply will also be down. And so the point I'm making is our society is also implicitly premised just like it's explosively premised on power, as well as water, internet roads. It's implicitly premised on the absence of serious infectious disease, from public venues. And the thing is that 50 years ago, this was understood to be a big deal. That is to say, you know, I tweeted something on the conquest of public health, the conquest of infectious diseases, you know, a Bicentennial review, it was understood that, you know, getting, you know, cholera and malaria and stuff like that under control, and turning them into non issues was a massive achievement. And that was that was something that was a huge social and technological achievement of coordination.

Unknown Speaker  1:51:34  
Well, even like the banishing of malaria, from Southern Europe, in the southern United States, you know, it led us to think in terms of, well, malaria cannot be an American problem or an Italian Yes.

Unknown Speaker  1:51:47  
Bingo. That's exactly right. So, the issue is that, um, power and water are utilities that are noticeable by their presence, but public health is noticeable by its absence. And so, you know, just like, like an electromagnetic pulse with me, the power has gone out in America. This is like the health has gone out in America. And so, what what that means is, you can't just tell a restaurant bull through this, okay? Because here's what happens first, like California put out these guidelines for in person restaurants how to reopen. I'm just using restaurants as a working example, because many of the things, you know, apply there, okay? First, these guidelines essentially expect Joe's diner to implement biodefense mode. Okay, it's like 12 pages of like, the most ridiculous requirements, get hand sanitizer, get this. You can't even buy that stuff. Or if you can, it's expensive. So So first is the Russians are hit with new guidelines, they're not trained or skilled in this kind of thing. They're, they're great at cooking food, not like sanitizing a place to treat a deadly virus. Number two is it's a new tax on them, because they had to buy all this equipment and train their workers. Number three, because of social distancing, they have to space their tables out. So they have less revenue that way, it's the opposite of a crowded restaurant, right? Um, number four, they have fewer customers, because half their customer base or whatever fraction, basically, like having the uncontrolled virus means, hey, I'm risking it every time I walk down. And this is something that the folks who are arguing, oh, the virus isn't that bad. Because the mortality rates, you know, it's not killing 50% of people, right? And my argument is, okay, yeah, sure, relative to death, you can say anything is not a big deal. Right? Death is a worse outcome. Right? But relative to a cup of coffee, or, you know, a slice of cheesecake or whatever, at the local, you know, cafe, a, you know, 10 weeks of serious illness is not something that you want to casually risk for that the same, you know, yes, okay, you can argue the virus isn't as bad as dying fine. But it's also, you know, this consumer benefit you're offering is not as good as the risk of, you know, where it is in the middle. Right? And, and so, you know, one way of conceptualizing that is, and, you know, I'm not, I'm not just like a economic determinist by any means, but for those people who are in the language of economics, okay, let's say that the virus would, you know, on, on average, do $10,000 of damage to you, for example, puts you out of work for that many weeks, you make $50,000 a year puts you out of work for 10 weeks, okay? Um, so let's say it does $10,000 of damage in the event of a serious case on and you have a 5% chance of getting the virus and a 30% chance conditional on getting the virus or having a serious case and then it costs you $10,000 for 10 weeks of sickness. Okay, that is 5% or 30% of 10,000. That's $150 cost that is now being imposed on every interaction has a chance of getting the virus, right. And that's not worth it for many kinds of things. And I'm not saying the people will calculate that numerically and explicitly, but implicitly, I think that that is going to be a tax on a lot of economic behavior. But that many weeks you make $50,000 a year puts you out of work for 10 weeks. Okay. Um, so let's say it does $10,000 of damage in the event of a serious case. And you have a 5% chance of getting the virus and a 30% chance conditional on getting the virus or having a serious case, and then it costs you $10,000 for 10 weeks of sickness. Okay, that is 5% or 30% of 10,000. That's $150 cost that is now being imposed on every interaction that has a chance of getting the virus, right. And that's not worth it for many kinds of things. And I'm not saying the people will calculate that numerically and explicitly, but implicitly, I think that that is going to be a tax on a lot of economic behavior. Go ahead.

Unknown Speaker  1:55:51  
So I like the general framework here. But I think we're sort of skipping a step, which is that most of us want to know what this is going to look like. So in a green zone, for example. So let's say that I buy into your red zone, Green Zone think thing. In a green zone, am I shaking hands with people I meet?

Unknown Speaker  1:56:13  
No, you're probably like, you're probably having some degree of social distancing? Well, okay, I'll put it like this. I think I think you're more likely to shake hands with somebody in a green zone, certainly. But, um, but I think that on balance until, um, until smart people will probably continue to take precautions, even in green zones. But, um, I think that you'd be more likely to shake hands or go to a restaurant in a green zone, certainly than a red zone.

Unknown Speaker  1:56:45  
And in my green zone, let's say five years from now, am I wearing a mask constantly when I'm outdoors.

Unknown Speaker  1:56:52  
So there's major branch points here. And so here's some of the key variables, right. The first is, um, do we get a drug or vaccine ever? for this? Okay. Um, and because there's some things, you know, HIV is turned into a chronic disease, but we haven't cured it. Okay. So, I'm not saying this is I we don't know yet people thought there's going to be an HIV vaccine very quickly. There's good reason. Peter kolinsky actually has a great article in city journal on the case for why you should get a coronavirus vaccine. He thinks it is possible it's been done and other animals and so on. So that's, that's important. On their hand, nothing's ever certain. So, especially in science, you're talking about a technological innovation, something that has not been done, so it's hard to do it on the schedule. So A is is is there a drug or a vaccine and drug meaning something that knocks it down to a basic non issue? Right? It doesn't have to cure it completely, but it knocks down? Is there a drug or vaccine number one? And if so, how fast is it arrive? Right? And the there's this warp speed project that's been announced? I mean, maybe they'll get something out there. We'll see what happens through the season the list

Unknown Speaker  1:58:08  
of people who've been

Unknown Speaker  1:58:10  
on No, actually I didn't look at that yet. Okay,

Unknown Speaker  1:58:13  
that's good question on that just shot an interview.

Unknown Speaker  1:58:17  
When you think about the smart people you're talking to, relative to this virus, technical, technically capable people, people who can think well outside the box, operate there execute? Are you aware of these people being herded up by our national government, in put in service of the public health?

Unknown Speaker  1:58:41  
Um, so there was a wall street journal article saying that there's, um, like, like, like, that's what I'm talking

Unknown Speaker  1:58:49  
about informal things that we're all doing to connect up. Right. Like, I have a very simple

Unknown Speaker  1:58:57  
thought your question is, you know, I would say no, like, there's, there's informal connections, and so on and so forth. But there's nothing that you know, and again, I need to look at warp speed. I think it just came out, like, you know, yesterday, so good.

Unknown Speaker  1:59:12  
It's not work. The question is different. And I guess, you know, part of the problem is, is that it feels to me like nobody has the right emotional Valence. And so I'll just say it very starkly.

Unknown Speaker  1:59:25  
The instantaneous thing to do

Unknown Speaker  1:59:28  
was to identify a group of people who were early or are thought of, I don't know highly by people who are early and get them all tested. Tell them to report to Central facilities, put them in some giant dorm with a marine at the barrack you know, at the at the entrance. Get make sure that you print up a security to expedite security clearances

Unknown Speaker  1:59:54  
and have them go crazy movie like what like like a kind of out of a movie.

Unknown Speaker  2:00:00  
No, not kind of out of a movie kind of out of the world war two era.

Unknown Speaker  2:00:03  
Right, right. That's right. So it might as well be out of a movie. I go ahead, right,

Unknown Speaker  2:00:08  
yeah. But like I saw

Unknown Speaker  2:00:09  
that movie, but I didn't. And I and I rejected it. Okay, no.

Unknown Speaker  2:00:12  
This is like

Unknown Speaker  2:00:13  
what smart people do when they're not stupid.

Unknown Speaker  2:00:17  
I don't know how to say this politely. But Right, right. I know, tons of people who should have been called. And I kept asking, Are you calling and say things? Like, no, we're passing our best thoughts to somebody who might be close to somebody on the Security Council. And my thought was, you're not in Washington, DC, you're not at whiteboards.

Unknown Speaker  2:00:40  
Nobody told you to tell your family, you're

Unknown Speaker  2:00:42  
going to be gone for three months.

Unknown Speaker  2:00:44  
Like, we didn't do anything smart.

Unknown Speaker  2:00:48  
Yeah, so you know, I tweeted this, but basically, um, amazingly, the US today reminds me of the India of my youth, in the sense of, you know, India's country with a lot of smart people that just couldn't get it together at a societal level for a long, long, long time. Now, amazingly, I would actually argue, despite even though it's got a serious outbreak, and so on, um, you know, India, I think, when when you know, this a prediction, and I would not call it 100%, or anything like that, it could be proven wrong in six months or a year, my overall feeling is India is punching above its weight in this whole crisis, and has had a higher state capacity than the US over this, which is amazing to me, um,

Unknown Speaker  2:01:38  
where India is

Unknown Speaker  2:01:39  
down, knowing it's astounding, right? Like, it's, it's astounding, and India has actually done a better job than frankly, maybe, you know, the France, Italy, the UK, like,

Unknown Speaker  2:01:50  
it's, I don't want to even get into whether they did a good job or abeja. When I,

Unknown Speaker  2:01:53  
you know, I mean, both you and I have a fair amount of interaction with India, when I heard that India was going to actually try to coordinate like sheltering in place, I

Unknown Speaker  2:02:01  
thought,

Unknown Speaker  2:02:02  
what do you think you are Luxembourg? I mean,

Unknown Speaker  2:02:05  
right. Right. But But they've actually, so they didn't just do that they've shipped like, a national telemedicine app with contact tracing. I mean, it has bugs and so on. But like, you know, it's it's out there. It's which no other Western democracy to my knowledge has at least, you know, maybe Estonia has something but not a large Western democracy. on it, they they got, you know, in I remember, in March, I posted a SoundCloud where every single Indian on when they picked up the phone to call somebody, there was a 32nd public health announcement played with a consistent set of talking points from the government. You know, the, the Prime Minister never said, Oh, it's just a flu or anything like that, they were taking it seriously, from the beginning, they seal the border to such an extent that, you know, even citizens found it hard to get back in, etc, etc. I mean, like, they did a lot of the blocking and tackling that, I was just like, what I was, I was honestly stunned. Because India has come so far. And then the US has come far in the opposite direction. Do I have an explanation for it, you can't give a technological determinist explanation, or at least not not an obvious one. Because India and China have been rising over the same period that the US and UK and Italy and so on have been falling on. I think you sort of have to argue it from just like a civilizational. arc standpoint, you know, just like empires rise, and they fall, you know, maybe you can, you can give other

Unknown Speaker  2:03:35  
different places about this. I feel like okay, so we got stuck with, you know, the modern Republican and Democratic Party leadership and like, you know, 30 people are going to take down one of the greatest national experiments in the history of the world. Ah, so you think of it as a small, okay. You think if you just change out 30 people, you could fix it? Is that is that your mental locks? I think that's a really, it's like, no, the person

Unknown Speaker  2:04:02  
my model is,

Unknown Speaker  2:04:03  
is that we got hit with something almost 50 years ago, which is this economic anomaly 1971 developed a culture of covering up the economic anomaly that is run its course after 50 years, but my belief about that was that you know, about when we got the Clintons in 1992, we took a really dangerous turn towards

Unknown Speaker  2:04:30  
sophisticated sounding total bullshit.

Unknown Speaker  2:04:34  
Like I really believe that the you know, Reagan, you could sort of see that they were trying to restart the the miracle, and maybe all of the mergers and acquisitions and getting rid of anti trust and direct and all that kind of stuff. was thought that it might work and then realize, okay, well maybe it doesn't work well enough to restart growth, but it's good enough to get some of us rich at the expense of some of the rest of us. Then the Clintons just took that and you know, raised it to some really high power. And now we're left with a situation where we can't reboot from anything. Because roughly speaking, I don't know, the people that I would want in control of this thing are like, people on the internet, they're like, you mean, who the hell are you? I don't know. But like, you know, when I, when I get confused about where we are, I don't call up the Centers for Disease Control. And I'd say walk me through this or dear who,

Unknown Speaker  2:05:31  
you know, explain how this all makes sense. I

Unknown Speaker  2:05:33  
call up people who are in these weird off the beaten path technical

Unknown Speaker  2:05:43  
centers, you know, and that is a failure

Unknown Speaker  2:05:45  
of our society.

Unknown Speaker  2:05:46  
So what my model is different from most of the rest of yours

Unknown Speaker  2:05:53  
is that I just think the important thing is to tell Hillary

Unknown Speaker  2:05:55  
Clinton and all of her friends to get

Unknown Speaker  2:05:57  
up out of their chairs and move. Like, we can't have the dumb people leading the country. We can't have Donald Trump as the president, bumbling this this badly. And then we get into this really weird thing where we've got like the Trump E's who can't stand

Unknown Speaker  2:06:14  
the fact that they can see that the New York

Unknown Speaker  2:06:16  
Times is full of nonsense, and that the Democratic Party is filled with nonsense, which dick quite, quite accurate about. or then you get, you know,

Unknown Speaker  2:06:25  
all of the democrats and the

Unknown Speaker  2:06:29  
academics are like, Oh, my God, you know, you're opening us up to crazy anti vaxxers in gun nuts, you know? And it's like, Okay, well, first of all, whoever you guys are, don't you realize that this is a pandemic? And this is the time to get all of the weak people, the stupid people, the non creative people, the conventional people out of the chairs, and there's like a religion about you can't say that. Who Who would you put in the chairs? And why are your friends better than it's like? Look, I guarantee you that if you ask the virology community, who are the 10, best virologist

Unknown Speaker  2:07:06  
in the world, you got a fair amount of agreement. And the key thing that we don't have is we don't have people who know that they have a job the next week if they speak the truth, or that they can get grants the next week. But I wanted to continue to get back on this other topic, which is, what does it look like? If you manage everything? Well? Do we ever go back to

Unknown Speaker  2:07:27  
hugging strangers

Unknown Speaker  2:07:28  
when we meet them? Do we ever go back to expecting that we're gonna walk down the street and not see face masks? Do we it? Because you see, even if we get these vaccines for this biology, it's really the case that we forgot what pathogens work. You know, we've had this very long, like, you know, you're younger than I am. And I at least had the Hong Kong flu as a, as a as a very young kid.

Unknown Speaker  2:07:58  
And, you know, most people don't even remember that there was a Hong Kong flu

Unknown Speaker  2:08:01  
in the late 60s.

Unknown Speaker  2:08:03  
And that, that says that swimming pools were a dangerous place during the polio epidemic that,

Unknown Speaker  2:08:10  
you know, we've been through this stuff, and I'm not sure that

Unknown Speaker  2:08:13  
this is the disease that

Unknown Speaker  2:08:17  
maybe will defeat this one, you know,

Unknown Speaker  2:08:20  
but there's still some different thing, which is, are we going to continue to have, you know, gain of function research? Are we going to continue to have biosafety level four labs all over the world doing whatever it is that they do? Are we going to continue to be able to meet each other as strangers? Or is this a permanent cultural shift? Is it? I mean, I guess what I'm asking is, what is the likely trajectory for this particular disease?

Unknown Speaker  2:08:49  
So, um, so I obviously predicting the future is challenging, but here, let me give a different scenarios, and I'll give some probability estimates or whatever. Um, so I think the biggest branch point is, as I mentioned before it like a Is there a drug or vaccine developed them be how fast? And obviously, you know, in the event that some miracle cure comes out tomorrow, and it's scaled to billions of people? Well, even then, I still think you've, you've still got a giant crisis on your hands, because a lot of these jobs have basically been destroyed. There's a lot of bankruptcy. You can't You can't unwind, you know, actually, Josh wolf actually had a good point on this where to bring the market back up, just need people to repurchase the stocks they just sold. It's a reversible thing in the language of thermodynamics, right. But when lots of people are fired, businesses shut down and bankrupted. Those folks get new jobs that move other places, the economy gets reallocated. That's not something you can just reverse, right, you can just click your fingers and reverse it. So even if it could

Unknown Speaker  2:09:59  
be Together any glass that you

Unknown Speaker  2:10:02  
drop on a tile floor? It'll just take you some time.

Unknown Speaker  2:10:06  
Well, so my point is that, you know, when you have something where on the peak number of unemployed on a weekly basis with something like 7 million people, you know, the recent reports, and that was 10 X the highest number during the financial crisis. And it took, I think, on the order of 10 years, like 2017, before unemployment levels returned to before the financial crisis. So when you've got 10 X a financial crisis? I mean, I think that's a generational recovery, just on the economic stuff on and I mean, potentially, at least, that there's a scenario that I don't say 100%. But that's, like what I would I bet that this is worse than the finished crisis? Yes. And because it's not fundamentally a an economic event or a political event. It's a it's a biological event. Right, it's upstream. Let me let me go a bit further. So So let's talk about I want to answer your question. So I think green zones may be able to get it under control without a drug or vaccine just by testing border control. And, and frankly, having locus of control, right, like they say they believe that they can actually do it, whereas Swedes and others have adopted some sort of fatalistic posture, which is everyone's going to get it. So might as well get it over with, and they don't realize that that has a lot of risk to it. Um, and, you know, does it just like it, maybe it works out, right. Like,

Unknown Speaker  2:11:31  
I don't even that just like, every time somebody says one of these things. I just, I scratch my head, because I think, what do you want to get it early, before people understand best practices? Or do you want to get it late when people understand what works? and what doesn't, for example,

Unknown Speaker  2:11:45  
I mean, it's it, I sort of get that people are like, Oh, let me rip the band aid and get it over. But we don't know what the length of immunity is. It's obviously knocking out a bunch of people. I think it's going to make people sicker than they think it is. And and why would you let? You know, basically, one point, I made this point to somebody, like, if you had the state capacity of South Korea, or Taiwan, or New Zealand, or China, or in Australia, or Slovakia, or any of these places, it's gotten it under control, or at least seems to have, you'd never, if you had the option of getting it under control, choose herd immunity as a strategy. You may say, you know, like, you never do that, right. It's like, you know, hey, you've got a fire extinguisher, you put out the fire, oh, let me burn down my house. So that or let it burn my house. Such that like, it'll be a firebreak to future fires in the future. Okay, you know, may might work, you know, but it wouldn't be the strategy you would choose. It seems more like calling defeat. Oh, I meant to do that. Oh, I rejected Harvard, you know, that kind of thing. Um, and, you know, the, the old lady who swallowed

Unknown Speaker  2:12:50  
a fly started with the horse.

Unknown Speaker  2:12:54  
Yeah, yeah. Yeah, sort of like that. Right, like so. So I think the red zone Green Zone distinction will be important as well, in terms of what that future looks like, in, you know, in a green zone, I think you're going to have a greater degree of normality, that to say you're going to be able to assemble crowds. On you're going to be able to, you know, people can go back to bars and so on. However, with that said, even in green zones, do you see what happened in South Korea with the bar. So a COVID-19 positive person who's asymptomatic, walked into a bar. And basically infected it went to five bars in a night, and infected on the order of 40 to 70 people, resulting in 1900 people being tested and trace in 2000 bars being shut down. Okay, so that's what like a serious society is doing to keep this thing under control. And it because you an interesting mental model for this is a viral fire, right? So fire is burning within people, and can pass between people and can go whoosh like this very quickly, you know, people are kindling for the fire, right? If people are kept apart from each other physically, the fire can't spread, you know. And so, I think that the adaptation we're going to have, I think the most likely thing I can see is, there will be very large economic costs for assembling large crowds in person.

Unknown Speaker  2:14:27  
So especially large crowds,

Unknown Speaker  2:14:30  
extra now.

Unknown Speaker  2:14:31  
Yeah. So what that means is the pandemic insurance for your concert, or your rally, or something like that, is going to be high on because, you know, in theory, you're liable once you know about this once it's no longer force mature. This is I mean, this is something that will be in every single contract, right? So large crowds, I mean, you know, I had one liner for this, I call it the physical divide. The reason is, you know, people used to talk about the digital divide, right? But, you know, for 70 years, we've gotten really good at packing a bunch of transistors on a chip that's become really cheap. You know, it's become suddenly really expensive Eric

Unknown Speaker  2:15:11  
putting a bunch of people in a room.

Unknown Speaker  2:15:14  
Okay, so that's become very, very, very expensive suddenly. Okay. And so I think

Unknown Speaker  2:15:21  
biologies law

Unknown Speaker  2:15:22  
where we have to get more and more sparse as time goes on.

Unknown Speaker  2:15:26  
So, so what I think is, yeah, there's, there's Now, one of the big things is there's attacks on large in person gatherings. And crucially, there's, there's a few big differences. People will often quote this, they'll be like, Oh, hey, after, you know, the Spanish flu, we had the roaring 20s. It's so a historical to say anything will change after this, it'll all go back exactly how it was you crazy tech person, right? And, you know, you know, just like the just the flu kind of person. I call this argument, just the Spanish flu.

Unknown Speaker  2:15:57  
This is Spanish.

Unknown Speaker  2:15:58  
Which thing is clever. Right? Okay. So the just the Spanish Flu argument basically says this is just the Spanish flu. Yeah, that killed like 100 million people. But nothing happened lasting from it. We had the roaring 20s. And you didn't even read about it. While we're there. There are a few major differences. Not not. Yeah. So meaning, there are major differences from that period. And let me go through some except to think about this a lot and do some research on it to articulate why would there be a branch point, right? Why would the Spanish Flu not seemingly have such a large effect where people are in crowds, two or three years later, but this this one would. So, um, first, and this is just a link to anchor, the economy of jonatha Carrington event was? Okay, so for your readers or listeners, I think 1857 the Carrington event was a solar storm that resulted in basically like Telegraph's catching fire or what have you. But for the most part, the economy of 1857 continued, despite this giant solar storm, because it wasn't, you know, filled, it wasn't electric. Exactly. So in a very obvious sense, the economy of 2020 is more vulnerable to an electromagnetic pulse or a solar storm than the economy of 1857 or 1918. Right. So despite all our advancements, we're more vulnerable along that axis of electromagnetic pulse. everybody would agree with that. Right? So then a fundamental question is, is the economy of 2020 also more vulnerable in an unarticulated sense, to a pandemic than the economy of 1918? Right, because we can give an example where it was more vulnerable, because very explicit and quantifiable, it's electrical stuff no longer works, right? Once you kind of analogized going back to a previous point about how it's like a health outage, just like a power outage, you know, when the power the The difference is a power is more tangible, because you bank on its presence, with healthier depending on the infections absence. So it's only, you know, 10, tangible in the opposite case, with a health outage, what businesses what activities, what parts of our economy and society are premised on the absence of serious infectious disease from society. So the most obvious one are crowds, right? big crowds are out. And I think out for a generation, that's something at least as a as a crowd to materialize a crowd in one location will be considered a show of strength. Okay, it's considered a society that is so confident, and so advanced, that it feels like it's just wiped out the disease, or or it is also possible, by the way, I want to make sure it is possible to hurt him in the argument works. I can't say I don't say it's not possible. I've just said it's risky. You know, so the the, it is possible that this terrorist to the whole population, like the Spanish Flu did, and then it's not a recurring issue, it just kills its hundred million, or whatever it is, and what

Unknown Speaker  2:19:04  
is the best thing from the point of view of lineage of bloodbath.

Unknown Speaker  2:19:10  
You know, that even if a small number

Unknown Speaker  2:19:12  
of us make it through because, you know, it takes something where you've got a mutant receptor, that makes it very difficult for the virus to attach, just imagine, I mean,

Unknown Speaker  2:19:21  
I think the best thing for lineage would be for us to invent, to get the biotechnology and biomedicine of 2100 and bring it into 21 in or 2020. You know, like, essentially, to advance by medicine quickly, so that all the crazy stuff, you know, like, for example, just getting a readout on your body to figure out exactly what's wrong. You know, this is Mike Snyder is integral is kind of like this is a professor at Stanford Medical School, who took a bunch of different essays and ran them all at the same time. I was able to find out when he was getting sick, and when he was having diabetes or diabetes like symptoms because he could see the readouts. You wasn't just univariate is highly multivariate. So like getting readouts like that on people, or all the promise of like, nanomedicine, you know, and this is stuff where it's like, you're actually sending in mini robots to go and like attack the tech bars, all the crazy sounding stuff or life extension, you know, like, like, what David Sinclair talks about?

Unknown Speaker  2:20:18  
Good. So that's cool. What about surveillance medicine, surveillance based medicine?

Unknown Speaker  2:20:23  
Okay, so So let's talk about this, right. So, the good scenario, as I was saying is, you advanced by medicine, in treatment sense, and so on diagnostic sense well enough that, ah, you know, Corona becomes a non issue COVID-19 to non issue, even if it's still around. Um, I want to talk about interesting things that China is doing to just for people to know what they're doing, you know, whether or not, I mean, one of the things that the US did is it copied locked down from Italy, which in turn copied it from China. So we've already kind of cloned China without acknowledging or cloning China or looking at the original source material to figure out exactly what they did, for example, didn't just give stay at home orders. Anybody who has tested positive within central central quarante, for example, right? There's 100 differences in terms of the execution, it's like the difference in saying, you know, build a social network and build Facebook, right? There's a huge difference in execution. Okay, so that said, we should understand what China is doing. If not, not necessarily copy it, but at least to understand, okay, one of the things they're doing is, everybody in China has WeChat. And WeChat is not used that much in the West. But in China, it's like a combination, PayPal and messenger and Facebook and so on. But even more than that, it's like your handheld interface to society. You any any restaurant stall, you know, like that you walk up to any government building, anything, has a digital interface on WeChat. And in fact, you don't even need the physical interface. You don't need a point of sale terminal. They're just like, here's my WeChat code, and you just qR, scan it and go right. Okay. So WeChat school ubiquitous in China. And it is a it's something where one of the features they have rolled out and WeChat is a national COVID-19 app that gives every citizen a green, yellow or red code. Corresponding to green is your considered healthy, you can travel, get on subways, whatever keep going. Yellow is on you are supposed to be I think, stay at home, and you're exposed, right? And red is your confirmed positive you have to go to supervise quarantine. Okay. Now, this is basically a way of instrumenting the entire country for Coronavirus. And you could imagine standing in front of a gigantic monitor, where you're looking at the greens, yellows and reds across China. And you know, of course, those labels need to be kept up to date, which we'll come back to. But assuming they are kept up to date by a sensor fusion, you know, you take a bunch of different kinds of tests and you have Okay, what is p have a label equals why yellow? Given this vector of variables, right, you basically have a conditional probability function that you're estimating. So you have this gigantic screen, mentally at least, which has all of these nodes moving around, and they're colored green, yellow, or red. And now, if you remember that South Korea example, what happened was a red walked into a crowd of greens or a yellow walked into crowded greens in a bar. Now, rather than going and just trying to track them down, you can see them on screen. You can hit one button, and the 50 people that that yellow was near or all Marciel of themselves and they all get text messages telling

Unknown Speaker  2:23:42  
this exciting to you. What's that? Is this exciting to you?

Unknown Speaker  2:23:48  
I think it's a so there's obviously bad aspects to it right like in the sense of this is total surveillance and so on. Um,

Unknown Speaker  2:23:56  
I've just I'm, I'm monitoring a change in my friends from going from being diehard libertarians to

Unknown Speaker  2:24:03  
Oh my

Unknown Speaker  2:24:04  
god, the surveillance economy is going to be huge.

Unknown Speaker  2:24:09  
I would never call myself a diehard libertarian, nor would I called myself a statist or, you know, or anything like that. Let me explain

Unknown Speaker  2:24:15  
why. I'm not talking about Yeah, to original. Forget it.

Unknown Speaker  2:24:19  
Yeah.

Unknown Speaker  2:24:20  
I have no this like a very strange change,

Unknown Speaker  2:24:24  
where a lot of my libertarian friends who are early on the virus are wildly into surveillance.

Unknown Speaker  2:24:31  
So, here's the thing about this is, um, the pandemic is like a war in the sense of it. It is like being invaded by a virus. And, you know, Lincoln famously suspended habeas corpus. There were many violations of civil liberties and so on that happened during World War Two, but crucially, The country did come back to a state of normality afterwards after that, you know, rival was defeated after that enemy is defeated, right. And so, um, you know, there's basically three models, right? The first model is you don't allow the state to do anything. And then you fall into kind of a market anarchy, I'll come back to that, because I think that's what's going to happen. And a lot of us, we're on track for that. The second model is, you do let the state do something, and it manages to solve the problem. If it doesn't, it goes back to market anarchy, but it managed to solve the problem. And it doesn't give up power, in which case by 2025, or 2026, or 2023, you're going to be pushing hard on decentralization and crypto. Or in the third case, like the good government, it takes on these superpowers, and then it of its own accord gives them up later right now. That's, that's unlikely, but it's not completely unprecedented. For example, South Africa, in the transition from apartheid, give up its nukes, Ukraine, when it became an independent Soviet Republic, give up its nukes. So it is, you know, it is unlikely for a state to give up its powers, but it's not unprecedented for it to do. So. It does happen sometimes. So those are kind of three outcomes. Um, I'd say what I'm most excited about, I'm not really excited about anything. But I do think that the best bet is an intelligent state that puts out the viral fire, and then sends the fire engines home. You know, like, it does not, does not maintain that, you know?

Unknown Speaker  2:26:34  
Do you mean, intelligent isn't smart or intelligent

Unknown Speaker  2:26:37  
as in surveillance,

Unknown Speaker  2:26:40  
intelligent isn't smart, as in like, enlightened, you know. So, just going back to the the yellow, red and green code thing. So, the thing about this is, you know, we already in the US have NSA tracking of cell phones that's been around since 2013, at least Snowden has revealed that, um, we we have on lockdown and house arrest, we have taken on a ton of the economic costs, it kind of seems to me, like, you know, you'd want to put out the viral fire. But let me describe a little bit further this system, how it works. But to be clear, I'm not advocating for this, I'm just saying how it works, you can see it. So folks to the screen yellow and red code. And now there's another aspect to it, which is, at least it's been reported that China's trying to test all 11 million people in Wu Han in 10 days. Okay? Now, if they can do that, you've got WeChat, which is a social graph. Okay, so you visualize, like, you know, the social graph of, you know, poo Han. And it's superimposed on the map, everyone's got XY coordinates. And these nodes are kind of walking around. And they're connected to each other. And at least two ways. One is a is a friend of B. And the other is a proximity graph, which is based on their xy locations over time, right. And whether they're near enough to somebody else, because you can certainly be physically near somebody who's not your friend in the social network, right. So you have this graph, the social network, or proximity graph. And now you superimpose colors that green, yellow, and red. And now what you do, what they're doing with this testing thing is they're trying to test again, have been reported on 11 million people in 10 days. And if you have the state capacity to do that, it's like dropping a massive amount of flares. Over a region, such as you're lighting up all of the nodes, it's like total testing. It's an older population in sampling and total testing. And now you've got very fresh labels on the nodes are the green, yellow, and red. And here's the crucial thing. If you can do that, if you can take an entire city, if you can light up the entire city social network with testing and find the yellow and red nodes. Well, you will find any hidden disease response that's so amazing, you could then centrally quarantine or you have them do you know stay at home and you put out the fire because you find the de stress was right. And then you don't have to, like you can now do that like city by city. Okay, it's like a clear and hold strategies like counterinsurgency. So with just testing and quarantine, you could potentially put out the virus like this right now. Um, the reason I described this is it's, you know, you might think, wow, that's an insane violation of civil liberties that we would never do, etc. But that was what people said about like, what happened with the lockdown and move on. And then it was basically done by Western countries like six weeks later, and done in a bad and amateurish kind of way. It was like if you're doing a lockdown, you know, you don't want to you there's 100 things that had ever done. I published a bunch of this stuff in March, by the way on what was actually happening in other countries, South Korea, Taiwan, etc. But point being that it is possible potentially, it appears possible to put out the viral fire with techniques short of a drug or vaccine. And, you know, this makes sense in the sense of, you know, we, the, you know, the US conquered a bunch of infectious diseases before they had PCR testing, before they had genome sequencing. You know, sometimes, like, you know, quarantine and elbow grease can get you much farther than you might think. So, uh, so let me pause there, that gives some sense of how you can get the virus under control.

Unknown Speaker  2:30:35  
Well, I appreciate your analogy of wartime, I often talk about regulated expression as a paradigm

Unknown Speaker  2:30:41  
that we don't use enough,

Unknown Speaker  2:30:43  
when especially well, just from biology that you have some reaction that you don't want to be present, john. But the idea is like, Okay, well, I'm going to upregulate this and down regulate that relative to the situation, right, hey, this is like life

Unknown Speaker  2:31:00  
during wartime

Unknown Speaker  2:31:02  
means that there are restrictions on civil liberties that aren't usually in place. And then, you know, the concern, of course, is that the argument? Well, we already have X, and so this is x plus epsilon, we already had snowdens revelations. And so we know that we're doing sorry, we should just make use of the data. You know, if I play that game, that compounds to tyranny very quickly. Now angry affirmation that says that, so and

Unknown Speaker  2:31:27  
so is going to give syphilis

Unknown Speaker  2:31:28  
to so and so else today, you know,

Unknown Speaker  2:31:31  
so Yeah, totally. And the thing is that basically, the US government has proven itself so incompetent in this current set of circumstances that I don't think it would be smart to advocate for it having any more power. So I want to be clear about that. But I do think it's important to understand what is being done successfully in the rest of the world, even if it's not imitated directly, for example, there's privacy preserving contact tracing, right? Maybe that gets you 60%. Right? Maybe you have something where enough people opt in to a green, yellow red code system to put out the fire in their city. There's there's

Unknown Speaker  2:32:09  
different ways. So I think you've actually hit this nail on the head before and I want to bring back biology on

Unknown Speaker  2:32:19  
biology then.

Unknown Speaker  2:32:20  
Okay. Sure. Could be. I think

Unknown Speaker  2:32:22  
what you're saying is that trust is a competitive advantage in the current

Unknown Speaker  2:32:27  
world. Because if

Unknown Speaker  2:32:29  
trust is high between a population and its government,

Unknown Speaker  2:32:34  
that government can do things

Unknown Speaker  2:32:36  
to fight a virus, that somebody else can't and that means it's a better place to do your production manufacturing, what have you. Absolutely. So this is the thing that I'm very upset about with the US, which is

Unknown Speaker  2:32:50  
I don't trust these people because they're bad.

Unknown Speaker  2:32:52  
They're obviously bad. They're stupid. They're incompetent. They're kleptocratic? They're they're not technically adept.

Unknown Speaker  2:33:00  
I get bored of saying this, because

Unknown Speaker  2:33:02  
I, I know people who are those things and they're sitting at home, they're not called up. The you could solve this problem tomorrow. If you could call up the Marc Andreessen is Patrick Collison Balaji Srinivasan Ian's Laura diamonds. I mean, you know, there's any one of a number of people who are just very mentally agile. And if you had them addressing the country, you completely change the US perspective

Unknown Speaker  2:33:33  
on the virus. The

Unknown Speaker  2:33:35  
key thing that we see is that I see Larry Kudlow and Steve newcon

Unknown Speaker  2:33:41  
on a on a

Unknown Speaker  2:33:42  
Coronavirus panel, I'm just thinking like,

Unknown Speaker  2:33:45  
what?

Unknown Speaker  2:33:47  
So let me give you some like, you know, aspect of how this is actually happening in some way different maybe

Unknown Speaker  2:33:53  
you buy into this idea that trust is a central asset.

Unknown Speaker  2:33:57  
Oh, absolutely. In fact, I've talked about it a lot. I mean, I'm not a ideological, ideological, anything. Usually. It's funny. When can go meta and say, Oh, you're making an absolute a statement about absolute a statement? Yeah, okay. But let's just say, ideology in general, is about 100% consistency. But, but I think a better model is ideology often identifies sliders, like polls, and then any particular situation requires you to set those sliders at some parameter values that are difficult to Intuit in advance or even verbally defend. The only way you can defend it is outcome based, like do people buy your product or not? Do they come to your country or not? Did you make the right set of trade offs that you can give some kind of high level ideological justification of maybe, but the specific parameter values how much surveillance versus how much not how much coercion purse how much voluntary like those are just like they Exact dials can't be discovered, in my view by angels on the heads of a pin. But But solely by what people respond to or not, and how much wealth and health is created for the population in a broad based sense. I'm coming to your second point. So that's like a kind of, like, how I think about it is ideology plays well, you know, verbally and on Twitter ideologies, viral, but pragmatism is functional. And and I think that that's like the Singapore style of combine whatever things you need to make something work, but get the highest health and welfare population. That's

Unknown Speaker  2:35:39  
another dimension, in my opinion. So you have the ideology playing well, on the internet, that practicality I understand what you're saying. But there's another thing which is coherence. So for example, the New York Times

Unknown Speaker  2:35:52  
CNN, NPR, the Democratic Party are coherent,

Unknown Speaker  2:35:54  
they may be coherent around nonsense,

Unknown Speaker  2:35:59  
right, right. But

Unknown Speaker  2:36:00  
if they all decide to start moving in one general direction, they will coordinate their movement enough that, in my opinion, the big knock against our world, our shared world, is that there's a tremendous amount of noise. And in this haystack of noise

Unknown Speaker  2:36:21  
are more often found the needles of

Unknown Speaker  2:36:24  
truth than over in the establishment area. So in general, my feeling is that somebody in our network is usually on top of most of these topics before

Unknown Speaker  2:36:33  
it's clear to anyone else.

Unknown Speaker  2:36:34  
But there is a fair amount of noise to

Unknown Speaker  2:36:37  
sort through.

Unknown Speaker  2:36:38  
So your previous point was very important one, which is how do we get competent people into positions of leadership? Right? On, and I'd say, there's many dimensions to this. Let me give you one reassuring thing, which is on gates and Bezos are doing some amazing things with the resources they have. For example, Bezos has said that Amazon is putting $4 billion of its profits into COVID-19, supply chain stuff, and Gates is spending billions of his own money on vaccines. And the critical thing. Do you have the concept of bioavailability, from pharmaceuticals? Have you heard that concept? Okay, so, if you take take a drug, right, there's different ways you can take it intravenously, orally, sometimes, you know, you can inhale it, and so on and so forth. And a critical question is, okay, you take 100, you know, like cc's of, you know, something, and or, you know, 100 units of some drug. And then the question is, is it actually, um, is it actually bioavailable? Does it actually hit the, you know, does it hit your system, or does it leach out as it did, and it's not properly metabolized, and it just in one orifice out the other, okay. And, um, bioavailability is often set to like 100%, for like intravenous administration. But the point is that you might take a drug, but it might not actually be that active, you might just excrete it without actually hitting the relevant part of the body where you want it to excrete. And that's the difference between the $2 trillion that the US government printed, and the $4 billion, that Amazon is allocating toward COVID-19. Amazon will be a very careful steward of that capital because it's run by Bezos. And he's smart, and competent. And and ultimately, there's one decision maker who's very smart and engaged, and that's him to resolve any conflicts. Now the money's allocated the US government's $2 trillion. I remember seeing that and I was like, Okay, well, how much of that is masks and vaccines and this and, you know, and drugs and testing and whatnot. And I think there was like something in there for like hospitals. But most of it was not that it was just a gigantic pork barrel thing with everybody getting an asking and so on. And so that was when capital was allocated politically rather than ideologically. So that was capital that was highly non bioavailable, it was $2 trillion, but only a fraction of that actually hit the target of the virus, as opposed to what Bezos AND gates are doing, which are very focused efforts with their own capital, one 1,000th as much capital, not 2 trillion, but like a billion, however, is capital that because an individual was pointing it, it was actually on target, as opposed to just the, you know, spread all over the place, right?

Unknown Speaker  2:39:31  
on target for the individual, whatever

Unknown Speaker  2:39:34  
that person is trying to accomplish.

Unknown Speaker  2:39:36  
Correct? That's right. But um, I think that is where we're likely to go, where we have these, you know, West Coast leaders who have enough individual capital and know how and networks and capability, they're actually able to put a dent in this thing, with far less resources than the state. And I think over time, what That leads to is building up larger and larger and larger audiences. And here's, here's why. When we talk about audiences think for a second, there's two different kinds of truths, right? At least there's political truths and technical truths. And a political truth is something which is based on the software installed in people's heads. That is to say, you know, for example, where the borders of a country, or how much is the currency worth, or who is the president, those are ultimately things which are based on the software installed in people's heads, if you can change enough of that, if you can muscle them into believing something else, you can actually change where the border is located, you can change what the currency is worth, you can change who the President or you know, the leader of some organization is, okay. Then separately from that there are technical truths, which are, you know, the diameter of this virus or, you know, the the value of this expression and math, or the gravitational constant, right? Those are things which no amount of muscling of people's brains is going to change, because their physics or their math, right, their science. And it's important. I mean, like, the thing is that, you know, there's also interesting things in the middle, right, like something that cryptocurrency uses technical truths, to make it harder to change political truths in certain ways. Because people are coming to consensus on who holds what money, but cryptography is being used to make it difficult to muck with that. What's my point? Point is, political truths are important. Political truths are where a lot of where the money is, political truths are where our entire establishment is focused on and they're incapable of thinking about technical truths at all. Here's an interesting point. If you can convince enough people, like, you know, if you can get enough backlinks, then I think you can change things. And it doesn't necessarily have to be through a standard process. I think, you know, for example, if you just build a large enough specialised social network in San Francisco, I bet you could win the election of San Francisco, that that would actually be an afterthought. For example, if you built up a San Francisco COVID-19 response community and you organized and maybe San Francisco is not a great place to start, by the way, it's pretty hard nut to crack. Okay. But But the good

Unknown Speaker  2:42:33  
thing is, is that, look,

Unknown Speaker  2:42:36  
I'll be honest,

Unknown Speaker  2:42:38  
I don't really see between the West Coast, the east coast in the nostalgic perspective, which I seem to represent. None of us seem

Unknown Speaker  2:42:47  
to have it right. But I'll be honest, I've spent enough time around

Unknown Speaker  2:42:50  
West Coast billionaires to know that they don't part with large amounts of money. Very Sure. Sure. You know, no, no, seriously, there's a there's an incompetent news story that's constantly written about someone so has a limitless wallet. You know, $10 million, is like blowing his

Unknown Speaker  2:43:09  
nose. And it's like, I've never met

Unknown Speaker  2:43:12  
this person where $10 million is like blowing your nose, right? Never met someone so rich, that they can't think about whether or not they want to spend $10 million on something. So we just had some sort of a rapid grant thing going on, with like multiple billionaires all getting together to put up $11 million. So my first feeling about this is

Unknown Speaker  2:43:37  
we're not that good on

Unknown Speaker  2:43:38  
the west coast, to be able to take all this stuff on,

Unknown Speaker  2:43:42  
not only can I say one thing, I say one thing No, no, no. Okay,

Unknown Speaker  2:43:46  
go get myself in trouble with my new tribe. Fine, fine.

Unknown Speaker  2:43:50  
My new tribe likes to talk an awful lot about disintermediating corrupt institutions, and then it can't actually get its

Unknown Speaker  2:43:58  
own act together very deeply.

Unknown Speaker  2:44:01  
The magic is

Unknown Speaker  2:44:02  
supposed to be when these people inhabit the regular institutions, then the regular institutions have to up their game because you've got a lot of people asking unfamiliar questions.

Unknown Speaker  2:44:12  
The club's kleptocracy

Unknown Speaker  2:44:15  
goes down because people are making their money by doing new things, or pissed off about people making money from stealing things. And we are treating the problem of how do we remove septuagenarians

Unknown Speaker  2:44:28  
from our political parties? who've been there

Unknown Speaker  2:44:31  
forever? Or just got there?

Unknown Speaker  2:44:33  
You know, like, how do I get rid of Trump? Pretty easy to me, you just stop the Democratic Party from being as corrupt and soulless as it is. How do you get rid of the people the Democratic Party while they're going to die?

Unknown Speaker  2:44:46  
You know, in 20, in the next 25

Unknown Speaker  2:44:48  
years, the current crowd of people who seem to be in control are

Unknown Speaker  2:44:52  
going to age out of this thing. My

Unknown Speaker  2:44:53  
guess is, is that within five to 10 years, they're going to be far fewer

Unknown Speaker  2:44:57  
of these types of people.

Unknown Speaker  2:45:00  
Then there are now and we're treating this weirdly as like a given

Unknown Speaker  2:45:06  
like we can't get rid of the rot.

Unknown Speaker  2:45:09  
And I don't want to keep getting back into it. It's not that interesting. But

Unknown Speaker  2:45:11  
I honestly don't think that the West Coast solution, it's like, you know, if you got a bunch of tech billionaires, jack Dorsey has stepped up to the plate at a surprising level, if I understand correctly, what he's giving through for COVID.

Unknown Speaker  2:45:25  
But I'm not talking make me very precise.

Unknown Speaker  2:45:27  
Sorry. But yes,

Unknown Speaker  2:45:28  
I'm talking about directing the capital

Unknown Speaker  2:45:30  
remaining engaged, bringing the same

Unknown Speaker  2:45:32  
thing that built the businesses and built the VC fortunes in into the mix. So the idea is that you have an idea of get shit done, you got to have an idea of fun gets

Unknown Speaker  2:45:45  
even more precise in that though, which is what Amazon is doing is essentially rolling out the technologies to turn the Amazon campus into a green zone. And then it can sell that to other people as a business model, to start expanding green zones out, where they MVP it for their own company first, they show that it works because they've got outcome statistics in terms of who's sick and so on, and essentially build a private health care system and slash management system. And it radiates out from there. That is like the West Coast model, rather than trying to start with $2 trillion in a top down kind of thing,

Unknown Speaker  2:46:24  
talking about starting a $2 trillion.

Unknown Speaker  2:46:26  
No, I know, I know, I know, Amazon has a different situation, because of its particular business model, obviously, you know, a world that isn't going to go out shopping quite

Unknown Speaker  2:46:37  
as much in brick

Unknown Speaker  2:46:38  
and mortar, this is accelerated a move towards online purchases, all sorts of things are happening. And I understand that you can actually start to implement this and experiment within your companies, etc. Obviously,

Unknown Speaker  2:46:51  
what you want is doing in

Unknown Speaker  2:46:52  
a, an atom's based company, rather than an electron based company, you know, it's different. I, maybe I'm just bored of hearing my own

Unknown Speaker  2:47:05  
take on this. But

Unknown Speaker  2:47:06  
somehow there was a last notion of competency that we have relatively recently that nobody thinks is even worth trying to get

Unknown Speaker  2:47:15  
back. I'm not, I'm not saying it's not worth trying to get back. I am saying that I don't think the mechanism for doing so is going to be a front door mechanism.

Unknown Speaker  2:47:25  
Okay, and I appreciate the

Unknown Speaker  2:47:26  
the kitty corner trying to sneak up on things.

Unknown Speaker  2:47:30  
And you know, these are

Unknown Speaker  2:47:30  
Yes, I wouldn't even necessarily call it sneak up on it. Because that involves, like, it is more accepting what you can change today with what you have doing that. And then seeing what door opens in two years or three years, right? By business, for example, let's say business going and fixing Amazon, which is within his power. Right? I mean, a very important question, you know, like, Is that the kind of thing that they make people say when they're in, like, rehabilitation facilities, like 50 cent raps about this, it's like, I'm gonna butcher it, it's a god give me the strength to know that change the things I can say, yea, the wisdom to know the difference. Right, exactly. So, um, so essentially, where is one's locus of control? Right? Basically, it is, you know, like, like, what is it that, that you can actually control yourself without requiring some new powers that getting new permissions from somebody without winning an election? What can you do today? what's under one's control? And I have a feeling that if, you know, there's somebody who comes up with a reproducible strategy, to develop, to turn things into green zones, and it shows that without statistics, that person will, by dint of that success, be able to parlay that into larger and larger successes, then you can see.

Unknown Speaker  2:49:02  
Okay, yes, but then, you know, I'm gonna have all my usual

Unknown Speaker  2:49:03  
problems, right. Go ahead.

Unknown Speaker  2:49:05  
Go ahead. What if

Unknown Speaker  2:49:06  
that person does it through surveillance through an unacceptable level of surveillance?

Unknown Speaker  2:49:11  
I can't. I can't stand surveillance. I friggin hate it.

Unknown Speaker  2:49:16  
And I've learned through time that most people don't feel

Unknown Speaker  2:49:20  
this way.

Unknown Speaker  2:49:21  
Except surveillance.

Unknown Speaker  2:49:24  
You know, they don't have a sense. Like, you know, if I'm going to speak out about Jeff Epstein, if I'm going to speak out about our intelligence services, if I'm going to speak out about lots of different things. I want

Unknown Speaker  2:49:35  
surveillance

Unknown Speaker  2:49:36  
to be dangerous, illegal, expensive and difficult. Somebody says like, I don't know, if it keeps me from getting sick. Let them know. Okay, so then we're gonna have this. If you start telling me about these private solutions in green zones, and you know, this whole nine yards, I'm gonna say, Okay, well, I don't know where that's going. Maybe the idea is that We're gonna get an incredibly

Unknown Speaker  2:50:01  
Jeff Bezos type answer

Unknown Speaker  2:50:05  
for what the world should be maybe I don't want a an Amazon friendly

Unknown Speaker  2:50:09  
version of this,

Unknown Speaker  2:50:11  
maybe I want a man in the street median individual friendly version of this, maybe I don't.

Unknown Speaker  2:50:19  
Maybe I'm really frustrated, which is

Unknown Speaker  2:50:24  
we're going to do what you're saying, because we've got this particular

Unknown Speaker  2:50:27  
class of

Unknown Speaker  2:50:28  
people we can't get rid of, and they're, they're going to be gone soon. They're just not going to be gone in time.

Unknown Speaker  2:50:34  
Like, if you imagine an Andrew Yang, for example,

Unknown Speaker  2:50:38  
were the nominee rather than Biden. presumptively, I guarantee you that Andrew Yang would be making use of this time to tell us what it sounded like to be in direct dialogue with technical people, he would have a more technical version of this thing. Mm hmm. But, I mean,

Unknown Speaker  2:51:01  
even but, but but, you know, it feels like I think one big difference between us on this is, you're much, much more focused on electoral politics than I am. And the I think one difference is, I don't believe that that is actually the most important locus of how things get done. You know, there's technology, there's a permanent bureaucracy. You know, there's, I mean, like, like, folks on Twitter, right? What's it?

Unknown Speaker  2:51:34  
Yeah, I don't trust Google's relationship to China. Mm hmm. I don't necessarily trip trust text

Unknown Speaker  2:51:42  
relationship to China.

Unknown Speaker  2:51:44  
I don't, I don't always love

Unknown Speaker  2:51:46  
the business community's solutions for things, which are also corrupt. You know, like, the way in which we talk about, what we do is all of it is

Unknown Speaker  2:51:57  
just returns to technology and competence. And

Unknown Speaker  2:51:59  
brilliance is a bit of a PR campaign. You know, and the government has their version of a PR campaign and legal, you know, sorry, legacy media has their version of this.

Unknown Speaker  2:52:11  
And I guess

Unknown Speaker  2:52:12  
what my take on this is, is that I, I'm closer

Unknown Speaker  2:52:15  
to the tech version, but there's a missing chunk, you see. And I think that science is the most important part of this missing Chuck, the thing that's really flipping me out, is that no one is trying to restore independent science, the kind of science you

Unknown Speaker  2:52:34  
can do when you're not worried about your funding.

Unknown Speaker  2:52:38  
So I've been talking about the PR campaign aspect. Um, I understand that vantage point, I think that you don't want to be really on a PR campaign, you want to be on a results campaign. And, and, yeah, we're gonna we're gonna

Unknown Speaker  2:52:53  
get into this, let me hit it off at the past. If you want to say what your results are, I'm gonna say to you, okay, cases, cases, reduced per unit surveillance or cases reduced, right? Except,

Unknown Speaker  2:53:08  
you can add that, you add that as a metric. And if it is truly the case, okay, that, um, you know, cuz here's the thing. You know, what Chrome web web inspectors, it's okay. So if you launch any web browser, there's, there's a thing you can do, where you can show every tracking pixel and everything that loads on a webpage. And you should just do that sometime. And you'll see, like, you go to techcrunch.com, you're in like, 100 databases. Okay, you're, you're already there. Right? Now, you can argue that is bad. And I would, I would agree with you in many ways. And I think that there are technologies like zero knowledge and so on, that maybe can get us there brave is working on like zero knowledge ads, and get as much of what we currently have with the internet with by also protecting privacy, potentially. Or you move to like a micro payment ecosystem where you're just seeing the money and not your information. But lots of different models are there. But I look at I'm I'm pro privacy, pro decentralization, pro encryption, I think that we can get there with some combination of technology and policy and whatnot. However, I also recognize that maybe we've got only a stone axe right now. And we've got a beast that's coming at us. And, you know, I'll take that thing out first, and then figure it out later. Right. And it just now there's another possibility.

Unknown Speaker  2:54:36  
I think my point would be, consider fragging, your commanding officer first, putting somebody competent in charge, and then regrouping, like, what's the next part of the plan? If we can't get rid of our commanding officer, then we've got a real problem.

Unknown Speaker  2:54:55  
So I mean, the thing is that I'm

Unknown Speaker  2:54:59  
a better way of doing it, I think is just pulling the backlinks away. Okay, so take your example, it's, I mean, look, you can't do this in a platoon or whatever. But a guy goes off and says, if it were, if it were legitimate, it's better. It's better than a startup. Okay, let me use that analogy rather than a platoon. Because there's like, you know, being disobedient in the military is different. Um, but you've got a company and you know, let's say the traitorous eight, you know, they just left and they just did their own thing. And the folks who follow them follow them. It's a free country. And so the backlinks that are pointing in this direction are now pointing in another direction. So if you pull enough backlinks over, then you've reformed the system without changing it in a direct way. You haven't taken it on in the front, you've taken on the backdoor.

Unknown Speaker  2:55:47  
Go ahead. So the United States of blockchain and blockchain tools, just

Unknown Speaker  2:55:55  
I think that this is kind of a weird intellectual

Unknown Speaker  2:55:58  
impasse, which is, I'm not disagreeing with you biology, that the current system is corrupt, doesn't work, can't get it done, new things are exciting, they're happening elsewhere. I think we live in a persistent fantasy, either about what's possible with sort of West Coast mentality.

Unknown Speaker  2:56:21  
Well, I can say, one thing that I haven't we haven't talked about which, which, which I think is very important. Um, I think that the layer that how would you reform the East Coast with West Coast tactics? Okay, let's talk, maybe talk about that for a second. I think that, for example, Bloomberg did where he spent like $500 million on the election, at least as reported, I think that was a waste of waste of money. But I do think that an equivalent amount of money spent on on personal media corporations, that is getting as many people to do substack, like things as possible, that are broadly aligned with the future. Like with technology, they're Pro, you know, transhumanism, their Pro, all this good stuff, that would have actually a major impact. And it's something that can be funded, it's something that doesn't require a huge amount of resources, it's something that can probably at least break even. Not that media companies necessarily make a ton of money. But the reason is that writing is fighting. And if you have a large number of new writers, who are scientists and engineers, and crucially, these should be I think citizen journalists, as opposed to corporate journalists, they're not full time journalists, they have personal media corporations, meaning they basically have like a, like getting, like $1,000 a year or $2,000 a year from a subject equivalent or substack. itself. And, you know, they don't have this is not something they're doing full time. This is a model, where it's something in between, like a blogger and a journalist. But it is something where you've got a like a, a serious hobby, okay, of writing. And if you had 1000 people like that, in SF, that, you know, or anywhere, um, that would definitely shift the debate on the topic. And it would shift electoral politics, it would shift the Overton window.

Unknown Speaker  2:58:23  
Yeah, you don't kind of

Unknown Speaker  2:58:25  
disagree. My feeling is that there are plenty of smart, interesting people, you can find them all over the internet has nothing to do with any. The key thing has to do with this sort of centralized exchange that I've called the gated institutional narrative. And the idea is, it's a world that only listens to itself. You can say the smartest things in the world, you got to try attacked by tech journalists, I assume. Air.

Unknown Speaker  2:58:53  
Yeah, but for being early on. COVID

Unknown Speaker  2:58:56  
Oh, yeah, that's true. That's true. Yes. Okay.

Unknown Speaker  2:58:59  
So whatever that

Unknown Speaker  2:59:00  
group of people is, that seems to continue to persist, no matter how many times

Unknown Speaker  2:59:04  
they get things wrong, that clearly

Unknown Speaker  2:59:05  
upset, they're angry, they're pissed off, they always have a job.

Unknown Speaker  2:59:09  
Okay.

Unknown Speaker  2:59:11  
What I'm talking about is roughly speaking, we did not get independence to the people who could use it, and we didn't seek them in institutional chairs. And I don't know why I seem to be the only person on this particular kick. It's clear as day to me, but the idea is, you know, and let me go back to Noam

Unknown Speaker  2:59:30  
Chomsky. Why does Noam Chomsky

Unknown Speaker  2:59:32  
sit at MIT? He's in his 90s. It's because we used to have people like you would be, you'd be a professor.

Unknown Speaker  2:59:41  
Okay, but let me push you there, though. Isn't it better that Larry and Sergey went into Google then became professors at Stanford or that Zuckerberg went into Facebook, rather than becoming a professor? I can't

Unknown Speaker  2:59:51  
I can't do this. Yes, for a few of the winners. But do you know how many people who were supposed to be who became neither Larry North Sergey

Unknown Speaker  3:00:01  
and didn't end up

Unknown Speaker  3:00:03  
in a position in a chair where they could do anything. Like you know, the FDA is in shambles. The CDC is in shambles Harvard's in shambles. You need people with agency protected from the people who want to control them by regulating whether they have a job on Monday, if they mouthed off on Friday, there's no such thing. I think that really what I'm trying to say biology is that there is no substitute for journalistic independence or academic freedom. It's not on the blockchain. It's not a question of it, mostly speaking, the very rich people that we discuss. I'm on the West Coast who have made it as so called so called technologists, first of all, they're really not technologists, they're really business people. And they happen

Unknown Speaker  3:00:53  
to do both.

Unknown Speaker  3:00:55  
Go ahead, but go ahead, but very often, the people who are really technologists

Unknown Speaker  3:01:00  
work for them, I'm sorry to say it, I'm not saying

Unknown Speaker  3:01:04  
there are all sorts of weird things that

Unknown Speaker  3:01:06  
the West Coast does differently. And one thing is, is that it tries to bury the concept that their actual, like, we'll always talk about Larry and Sergey. And we'll never talk about the Master Master coder who came up with MapReduce, you know,

Unknown Speaker  3:01:21  
Jackie, yeah, so Gemma, well, yeah,

Unknown Speaker  3:01:26  
I know, I know you do, because you're local. But that was my point. If I said, Jeff, do you? Do you think that the world in general knows who he is?

Unknown Speaker  3:01:34  
No, but the people who should know do know? I mean, well, actually, actually, actually, let me

Unknown Speaker  3:01:41  
ask you how many people should know?

Unknown Speaker  3:01:44  
I think you're right about that. So, but, but here's the thing is, okay, a few different things. Several different things to shoot out there. First, you talked about, um, folks being under economic sanction such they couldn't speak freely. And you know, how does a blockchain you know, so that actually, this is something blockchain is pretty good at for two reasons. First, is, you can earn pseudonymously. So you can separate out your earning name, your speaking name and your real name. So that you only use your real name on official forums, you speak under one pseudonym and earn under yet a third. And that starts to isolate your, your job, from your speech from your like, you know, kind of your real name, right. So that's kind of one aspect. The second aspect is that the mainstreaming of crypto and also in cryptography, as well as cryptocurrency is mainstreaming encryption. And so technologies like keybase, and so on, allow you to communicate with others or even publish your thoughts. pseudonymously or an encrypted fashion without someone being able to target you for thoughtcrime. Right. So I actually do think that those two things are pretty important,

Unknown Speaker  3:03:03  
okay, to get into another one of these things. But my

Unknown Speaker  3:03:06  
point is that there's, there's,

Unknown Speaker  3:03:10  
it's like, we were constantly

Unknown Speaker  3:03:11  
working around something, you know, like, what's the problem with thoughtcrime? The problem with thoughtcrime is we've got a bunch of people, terrifying, everybody, tiny number of people terrifying, everyone, that if you observe what you see with your own eyes, or hear with your own ears, you're Satan.

Unknown Speaker  3:03:31  
You know, I don't even know why, for example, I have no

Unknown Speaker  3:03:34  
idea why my my world

Unknown Speaker  3:03:37  
is so convinced that I should never mention the Wu

Unknown Speaker  3:03:40  
Han lab, or you're a crazy person. Like I don't even know where that comes from. It's not part of science. It's not part of being a grown up. It's it's some sort of a directive that I don't understand. I can't

Unknown Speaker  3:03:52  
grasp it. It's decentralized consensus. It's basically some it's quasi decentralized. And here's what I mean. It's, it's not something where most of the people repeating it were told to repeat it. It is that they saw it on social media, or they heard it from somebody. And they saw the tone in which he was uttered. And it's usually uttered in like a contemptuous tone, where A is looking down on B. And they don't want to be the person looked down on and so then it's repeated that way. Now, some of them actually go and diligence it for its factual characteristics, but that's rare. It's kind of

Unknown Speaker  3:04:29  
remember the Sinclair broadcasting networks comm

Unknown Speaker  3:04:33  
Yeah, right. The only thing the thing that was funny about that is that happens all the time. That was just something where someone put in the effort to go and get all those clips out of a TV news search engine, which was impressive and actually worth doing but you know, that happens all the time for all kinds of stories. You know, you it's it's very

Unknown Speaker  3:04:51  
jon stewart made something

Unknown Speaker  3:04:52  
of a career showing that they were talking points and that everybody fanned out from the park right, right, right. Exactly. I said

Unknown Speaker  3:04:58  
yep. But like at some level? Look,

Unknown Speaker  3:05:06  
I think we're going around and around on something which I would like to, to just exit from,

Unknown Speaker  3:05:11  
I understand that the current situation

Unknown Speaker  3:05:13  
looks hopeless and pointless, and that we have new technologies and fine.

Unknown Speaker  3:05:19  
Can you give a positive vision of the future? Like what things? You know?

Unknown Speaker  3:05:22  
Yeah. What do you close close this out with a positive vision of the future? You and I can talk about other things that

Unknown Speaker  3:05:27  
another another show, that'd be great.

Unknown Speaker  3:05:29  
Okay, great. So positive is your future. Um, first, I think we're going to get a y shaped recovery, which is to say not V shaped where it bounces back or w shape or bounces up and down, but y shaped in the sense of, we were on one branch of the economy, and now we're taking a totally different one. And so the bad part about that is I think we're deprecating the physical leisure economy. So bars, concerts, restaurants, travel hotels, a lot of that stuff will be looked back on nostalgically when, you know, a middle class person could easily travel and vacation meant, you know, like, like international travel, I think, I think air travel, that type of stuff is going to be less frequent. But where does the reallocation go to? info bio, crypto, Robo aggro, and maybe Astro. Okay, so info, anything digital. That's obviously that just continues, like, you know, but that includes virtual reality. That includes, you know, cryptocurrencies and so on. Bio also goes without saying, I think this is now people have talked about this being the century of biology, but I think we're going to get 50 years of progress in 10, or even faster. And it's not going to stop at Corona, it's going to be something where one thing that's actually under appreciated, people have gotten used to waking up in the morning and checking dashboards that usually check it for, you know, their email dashboard, personal dashboard, or their company dashboard, their metrics, but now they're checking it for countries. And they're checking it not just for money or things like that. But for health. That's very new. It's not like people didn't look at life expectancy. But real time dashboards of how countries are doing in terms of health and wealth starts to reorient towards better metrics, I think, for society. And hopefully, we apply that to tracking diabetes and heart disease, I'm not saying everybody will track it to the same extent they're tracking Corona. But in the same way, the financial crisis awakened an entire generation, to thinking about the Fed and the money supply and being aware of those graphs, then you're gonna have a much larger number of people looking at health. So we start thinking about important problems. And maybe we throw, you know, not just money, but energy and time and intelligence at anti aging at brain machine interface at limmer generation at, you know, like stem cells, all of these kinds of things exist, but could use a shot in the arm. Okay, so by then, crypto, I think this is both. I mean, obviously, I'm very bullish on crypto, but crypto is on the crypto economy. It is it's Bitcoin, but it's also in many red zones. And in places where there's market controls being put in place, I think crypto is going to be essential. Robo again, goes without saying, but whether it's drone delivery, I don't know if you've seen the sidewalk robots that are rolling around, whether it's basically the manufacturing robots, whether it's bringing supply chains back to the US and Boston Dynamics in Singapore, Boston Dynamics in Singapore, right, exactly. I love all that stuff. Because anytime you can have a robot do something, you're freeing up a human to do higher value thing. And or in this case, you've also got the hygiene argument, where you'd much rather have one human and five robots touch something, then, you know, like a little something like chicks, you can just

Unknown Speaker  3:08:56  
feel it, you're gonna tell me that.

Unknown Speaker  3:09:00  
You know, first it's gonna be well, we already have robots that bark orders

Unknown Speaker  3:09:04  
now. I mean, like,

Unknown Speaker  3:09:08  
that, it's gonna be like drones with with, with 50 caliber ammunition, the idea that everything's gonna be incrementally just a little, like we do.

Unknown Speaker  3:09:17  
I'm very conscious of the slippery slope argument. And in fact, I agree with it. What I'm basically saying, when I made that previous comment, what I was basically saying is that we have the costs of this already, in the sense of we have this NSA surveillance apparatus. It's already there. You assume hopefully, that someone could use it for good because what is it being used for otherwise? I don't know. Right? Now you shrink it. We could shrink it. That's right. But But I think that, you know,

Unknown Speaker  3:09:47  
and make it make it like responsive to

Unknown Speaker  3:09:50  
civic civil liberties. Sure, absolutely. You know, or you have alternatively a competent state, which takes privileges for a period of time and then gives him up or is forced to give them up later, right? But okay, so just finishing like the good scenario. Um, so robo is, uh, you know, as I mentioned, it's it's robotic factories, it's basically like the real future right? on its autonomy, its drones, its its automation of all kinds. And then agro is actually kind of part of, you know, it's got pieces of the others, but certainly food production is going to be a big thing. And, but, but food production in a hygienic way, you know, whether, like meatpacking plants, for example, are probably going to get robotized just given that they like the collagen, Corona infections. And, you know, maybe people will eat, you know, foods that are less amenable to, you know, for example, the organic foods, or the free range chicken type stuff is less factory farm, and therefore, there's less people around. And so it's less, I think intensive. And so maybe it has a lower infection rate, that kind of thing may happen, right, but so those sectors info bio crypto, Robo aggro, and the last Astro, with what Elon is doing with starlink. But those combined four are really interesting scenarios, like, for example, go and move from the city out to a really cheap rural area with a huge house. And it's like one 10th the cost or whatever, depending on how far you go. And you've got starlink. So you've got internet. Every job is remote work. So you can pick from any job and switch jobs very easily that liquidity of global labor markets shoots up. You have drone delivery, and so you're connected, you know, the Amazon, you have fewer drives, you're but they're self driving.

Unknown Speaker  3:11:48  
your carbon footprint goes way down,

Unknown Speaker  3:11:51  
your carbon footprint goes way down. That's right. And you're you're in tune with nature, you know, you can walk outside and see green on and you're basically it's like, it's like a techno rural sort of lifestyle on somebody told me Asimov's book, The Naked son talks about something like this. And I have to go and read it because I had not read until, as mentioned, I

Unknown Speaker  3:12:10  
should say also did the intro to one of my episodes where I talked about my wife's general belief, which is that

Unknown Speaker  3:12:18  
Coronavirus

Unknown Speaker  3:12:19  
effectively just accelerates all aspects of the future that were being held back.

Unknown Speaker  3:12:24  
Yes, that's right. So let's talk about three of the biggest ones, right. Um, education, healthcare, and, and real estate. So, last one, first real estate. So for last, I don't know how many years people in San Francisco in big cities have all been talking about, Oh, my God, we can't build skyscrapers, you know, and because of, like, you know, the NIMBY versus EMP thing, and generally, I've been on the MV side, you know, you know, reduces cost to be able to build, etc. But now, we may obviate that entirely. For example, one of the things I've been talking about on Twitter, VR has gotten really good. Oculus quest is, I think, the most important device since the iPhone. It's amazing. It's amazing, right? And it's underhyped relative to how good it is.

Unknown Speaker  3:13:09  
The previous version seemed to have been slightly

Unknown Speaker  3:13:11  
overhyped, and then people lost interest,

Unknown Speaker  3:13:14  
right? They can do a capital budget.

Unknown Speaker  3:13:16  
That's right. That's right. So, um, one of the things I'm doing is experiments with portfolio companies of mine, where everybody's buying Oculus quest, and seeing if they can do effectively like a virtual office. Okay. Now, there's another version of this, which is, let's say that folks move out from the cities because cities are big crowds, basically. Right? Like Remember, the one thing I think is a pretty sure bet will decline, our big crowds. And I say, decline doesn't mean go to zero, but it means declines. Okay, so cities and big crowds in general. So city is like a, it's like a persistent big crowd. You get away from the city, you go to techno rural kind of thing, you've got a backyard now, what you could do is you could drop a shipping container that has both the home office and a VR room in the backyard and doesn't have to be exactly a shipping container. It can be a modular, okay, you've got home office plus VR room. And what's interesting is for a company, I would rather for my 10 employees pay, let's say 100, K, for 10 vr rooms and the VR gear on and then I don't have to pay anything more. Right? Like, it's not it's not a lease. It's like a piece of capital equipment. It's an amazing perk that you get, and, you know, maybe maybe it's like, something where the employees in on half of it. There's all kinds of deals, whatever you can work out with that. But point is, now you've done something where you've decentralized commercial real estate, you've networked together a bunch of cheap pieces of property, to create something where you can now deliver the office itself as a service. Okay, so that is to say, you've got these VR rooms, you deliver a virtual office in VR, and you can change the lighting, you can have rooms that have persistent white words, you can teleport somebody in for a business meeting on this concept of actually making Microsoft Office, Microsoft Office VR or whatever, that will actually happen. I think it's pretty good. It's pretty good

Unknown Speaker  3:15:12  
that the virus we wanted that the virus we needed,

Unknown Speaker  3:15:15  
maybe. Okay, so what that does also it gets people out, you know, in nature, right. And yeah, you have you have everything about, like a VR lifestyle is you're standing more, and it's actually better in some ways than sitting, right?

Unknown Speaker  3:15:28  
Yes, there's

Unknown Speaker  3:15:31  
the Yeah, so there's lots of things.

Unknown Speaker  3:15:33  
So let me give you two more, let me get to more education. Okay. So colleges, the entire this summer is near to your heart. Um, you know, my my friend slash colleague, Noah Smith actually tweeted about this about this coming college apocalypse mentioned that state funding is being cut. foreign students aren't coming because both immigration and lack of demand and domestic students aren't coming. And for if the pandemic goes on such that campuses don't reopen in the fall, no one wants to pay 50 k for zoom.edu on and so suddenly, you've got a tension between what the colleges think they're delivering in terms of benefit, and what they're actually delivering. And so I think you're gonna have a wily coyote thing with lots of bankruptcies. And the fourth, you know, the thing that happens, in addition to those three factors. The fourth factor is old online education that's been built over the last 10 years, I think that goes vertical. So we started to start to actually get a future where anybody can get a quality technical or trade education, I think, online for a fraction of the cost, and actually unlock, you know, the power of the engine on that. And that's another major thing. And third is healthcare. So we also already mentioned bio, but these telemedicine apps, like what India is doing with the rhodia say, to put the doctor and the prescriptions and the EHR and so on in there. This something should happen a long, long time ago, but telemedicine suddenly becomes the first line of defense that's already happening in the US. So telemedicine becomes first line of defense, you can get a house call, you can actually get prescriptions, you'd have to go down to the doctor people will see the more frequently, you'll actually have checkups, you'll have someone monitoring you becomes convenient. And to start hyper deflating at least one aspect of medicine, which is the you know, the the GP visit general practitioner visit. So you start actually going after going after

Unknown Speaker  3:17:21  
these great points, all things that are going to change some for the better. There's no way to not avoid blowing people some good

Unknown Speaker  3:17:30  
balls I

Unknown Speaker  3:17:30  
wanted, I wanted to have some positivity. That's all I really

Unknown Speaker  3:17:33  
appreciate. I want to end it here because it is positive. And I don't disagree. And we've been on this as well. I think that this idea that many aspects of the future that have been held back are going to be beneficial.

Unknown Speaker  3:17:46  
I would like to talk to you, of course at great length about

Unknown Speaker  3:17:49  
a lot of different topics. You're one of my favorite divergent minds out there and not just mine, a lot of people in my circle will do in very high regards. I'm

Unknown Speaker  3:17:57  
so glad we were able to bring you You're the

Unknown Speaker  3:17:59  
first remote, I think

Unknown Speaker  3:18:01  
that we've done

Unknown Speaker  3:18:02  
in the history of the show. So I wanted this

Unknown Speaker  3:18:06  
to say thank you for coming through the portal. And

Unknown Speaker  3:18:10  
do you want to say anything else about what you're doing where we should be looking for you?

Unknown Speaker  3:18:14  
Sure, follow me@twitter.com forward slash Balaji. S and I'll probably announce himself and on my Twitter feed and you can see it then.

Unknown Speaker  3:18:23  
Alright, so maybe there's some interesting

Unknown Speaker  3:18:24  
things coming up. You've been through the portal with Balaji Srinivasan Ian general partner at Andreessen Horowitz Horowitz, former CTO of Coinbase and somebody who has been very active in the biotechnology sphere, in fact shepherding a company to public offering or sorry, rather a purchase, I believe for over $300 million and one of the people who was first and earliest and clearest on the Coronavirus COVID-19 situation. So please try to find us wherever you listen to podcasts on Apple, Stitcher, Spotify. Also head over to our YouTube channel and not only subscribe, but be sure to click the bell icon to be notified whenever the next video drops. And we will hopefully be back with biology and other topics. Thanks for hanging in there and stay safe out there. Be well

Transcribed by https://otter.ai
