Unknown Speaker  0:00  
Let's get started. So our first speaker is Balaji Srinivasan Balaji is the founder and CEO of 21. co. He's also a partner, partner, the reason Horowitz and I have to say I had the great pleasure of teaching our crypto class. Sorry, a cryptocurrency class with Balaji, who actually helped a great deal with the lab for the class. So Balaji looking forward to your talk.

Unknown Speaker  0:30  
Okay, does that work? All right, great. Okay, so, um, today, we're going to talk to you guys about is basically this idea of quantifying decentralization. So just by show of hands, which of you guys were at the blockstack? summit in July? Okay, only a smattering. Okay, so that's good. So some of this will be, you know, overlapping with that. But there's also a fair amount of new content. And so, you know, Dan was kind of intro me, that's me in a suit only picture ever taken. And so basically, I'm actually a Stanford lifer. You know, almost 20 years ago, I was an undergrad moving into one of these dorms. And now I'm running 20 one.co. And we're going to talk about today are basically three things. So most of it is going to be about the motivation behind a simple metric for quantifying decentralization. And at the end of got funding for anybody who's a developer who wants to build a decentralized dashboard, we've got a great domain name at decentralized, calm. And so if anybody actually wants to code that I can provide some funding. And you know, basically, you can implement some of the ideas in here to make a real time dashboard across coins to look at these decentralization metrics. And third, we've got a new token. And it's not an Ico, you can just go and sign up for it at Central token calm. And basically, the idea is, this also partially addresses some of the issues that I bring up in point one. Okay. So that further ado, basically, when we think about decentralization, this something that everybody talks about endlessly. In fact, it's something where, you know, everyone's gonna say it's important, and in fact, is the most important property of blockchains, as opposed to traditional databases. But nor to say that something is more or less decentralized, you need to have a quantitative metric. So just establish that, you know, everyone agrees that decentralization is important. Here's satoshis launch of Bitcoin. Actually, it's like, maybe about a month or so afterwards. But you know, in the second sentence, he says, you know, the unique selling point of Bitcoin, the attribute is it's completely decentralized, right? Nick Sabo says, you know, it's what allows Bitcoin to suit an army of computers. vitalik, you know, was right here said, you know, it's viewed as a blockchains. entire reason ditra. But one of the words is, perhaps to find the most poorly, and Adam Ludwin, who's a chain CEO says, with a very related thing on censorship resistance, that district decentralize astronomically better, or arguably the only solution for certain kind of application. So everybody kind of agrees that this concept of decentralization is important, and that it's a key feature that distinguishes blockchains from centralized databases. And so the thing is that it'd be really useful to have even an imperfect measure with which to quantify decentralization, as I'll show later in the talk, imperfect measures of performance have allowed us to improve programming languages, imperfect measures of what is a hot dog or not hot dog have allowed us to develop apps, like in Silicon Valley, and in fact, the entire field of machine learning. You know, feature ization is an imperfect quantification of something. The thing is that if you can quantify something, even if in perfectly, once you can measure it, you can say, Okay, this improvement or that improvement, increase the value of this function. And then you can actually plug that into an optimization algorithm, you know, many of you guys here, you know, if you're a Stanford students, you've taken convex optimization. But basically, optimization requires a loss function, something that actually measures the property of something. So if you want to design an optimally decentralized system, you need to actually have some kind of quantification of what decentralization is, okay? This is a kind of motivation, people think it's important. And if you could quantify it, unlike a whole body of mathematical tools that you could then apply to the situation, which would hold even if that qualification was imperfect. Okay, so to get there to get to a qualification, we're gonna just introduce a few concepts. So first is this idea of the so called Lorenz curve. Now, this is something you've probably heard about, maybe from economics, Lorenz curve, or the Gini coefficient. It's used by economists to measure inequality. And the idea is that inequality of money and centralization of power are actually similar sorts of ideas, right? So let's just review these two ideas, right. So, um, with the Lorenz curve, basically, it goes from the concept of perfect equality, where everybody has exactly the same amount of something, let's say it's a theorem or a theory of mining capability, or, you know, commits to a code base, if everybody was exactly equal, and they all had, you know, one bitcoin on, you know, 7 billion people, which is not actually possible, then you'd have a perfect equality like this, where it just it just basically the straight line, whereas if you had total inequality, only one person has everything and everybody else has nothing, okay. And so this is this concept of the Lorenz curve, which is basically this, this, you know, this graph and the Gini coefficient is essentially a measure of how concentrated Lorenz curve is, it's zero when you're completely equal. And it's one when you're completely unequal. And these are kind of two examples along that continuum.

Unknown Speaker  5:10  
And so, so that's concept number one. Concept number two is that we can take a decentralized system, break it up into subsystems and measure llorens, and Gini coefficients for each one. Now, I want to be absolutely clear the subsystems I'm about to show these are for illustrative purposes only, I don't argue that they are the only ways you can decompose these things. And the data is from July 2017, we'll do an update of this actually, I've got some funding for somebody wants to make a real time dashboard of it. So with those two caveats, let's let's take a look at these decentralized subsystems. The basic idea is that you can take a public blockchain and you can enumerate a set of essential subsystems. For example, again, just for illustrative purposes, let's say that we say there's the six essential subsystems, right? So mining, you know, the the, say, the distribution of block rewards across miners, the different clients, and you know, how they're distributed and production across, you know, nodes that, you know, you can actually see, you know, how, what percentage of shares owned by different code bases, developers? And so within, let's say, the most popular repository Bitcoin Core get, what is the distribution of commits? exchanges, and you can see kind of what the distribution of volume is, is it all focused in one exchange? Or is it spread out nodes by country, and then ownership by addresses, right? These are just examples of subsystems. And then for each of these, what we can do is we can calculate Lorenz curves and Gini coefficients, right. So, you know, if we take the last 24 hours of Bitcoin mining, it's actually fairly spread out. And a bunch of different folks have earned some. And so this actually has a relatively low Gini coefficient. It wasn't actually that that centralized at the time that we measured this client decentralization most Bitcoin clients are running Bitcoin Core, there's some that are running, you know, ABC, or, you know, Bitcoin Unlimited, or what have you, developers centralization, so by commits to core, basically, the idea is, you know, okay, how many commits to the first developer have, the second most commits? Are the consumer, the second most contribute developer and so on? That's actually fairly concentrated, not as much as clients can always also do this for exchanges and for nodes and for owners. So we can say, okay, you know, across exchanges, what is the distribution and share of, you know, trade power, daily volume, you know, across countries, how many nodes are in each country, the US and China and what have you, and across owners how much is held per address, given that we impose some threshold and it's actually important, given that most people in the world have zero BTC or zero aetherium, unless you impose a threshold, this is just going to trivially be point nine, nine, and I'll return to that point later. But given a threshold, you know, what does that owner decentralization look like? We can calculate these curves also for aetherium. Right? So you know, mining, decentralization a theorem again, just over a 24 hour period, client decentralization, Dev decentralization. So there's a lot of, you know, the top two people, you know, in gap have actually contributed a very large percentage of the code. Exchange, decentralization, you know, like, again, volume across exchanges, no decentralization across countries and honor decentralization. Okay, so this gives some sense of given these, this choice of subsystems, this choice of metrics, how centralized they are. Um, but, and the idea here is that we can take a maximum over these and say, a decentralized system is only as decentralized as its least decentralized subsystem. And the reason for this, just to understand is there's like a decentralization bottleneck, right? If everything else is decentralized, but you have one component that centralized the system is centralized, because you can then go and grab that bottleneck. So as an example, if we just take a table like this, it doesn't matter in this particular circumstance that you know, Bitcoin is highly decentralized in terms of block word of the past point for hours, if you could just compromise a particular client on you know, then this is the most centralized row in that table. That is to say, you know, the number one client is like the most centralized, you know, component, again, by this measure.

Unknown Speaker  8:55  
And the other metrics wouldn't matter as much. Because if one portion is centralized, the whole thing is centralized. Now, one can object to the Gini coefficient, because it doesn't really give mechanistic insight into what you have to compromise. So, um, we have a modification of it that we call the minimum Nakamoto coefficient. And the idea here is, uh, you know, basically to go back to the Lorenz curve, and say, Okay, what if we do something that's a little bit more intuitive? And we say, Okay, how many entities Do we need to compromise to get to 51% so called Nakamoto coefficient, you know, motivated by the concept of the 51% attack in Bitcoin mining. And of course, you know, in any given subsystem, you might need to compromise more or less than 51% to compromise that that subsystem. But the idea here is that we can again, go back to each of these graphs, we can say, okay, you know, the nakoma condition is four in order to compromise Bitcoin mining, you need to take the top four miners in compromise some to get 51%. But you only need to compromise one client in order to get more than 51% of nodes, but you have to compromise five devs to get more than 50% Have commits and so on, right, and 51% is an arbitrary number outside the context of mining, you could change that that threshold. But this starts to give a sense of how many entities you need to compromise in order to get past 51%. And we can do this across exchanges and nodes and owners. And we can also do this for aetherium, right? And we can say, okay, you know, two miners in this 24 hour period, you know, mind most, no more than 51% of the theory, and again, in this particular 24 hour period. And when we do all this, and we total all up, we can look at these tables across the continent there. I mean, we can start to see, okay, you know, holders, at least by you know, this metric are actually relatively decentralized. But, you know, the client are actually fairly centralized in the sense that the most popular client has a very large market share across nodes. Now, all these things are subject to change over time, I'd like to get a real time dashboard together. So you know, if you measure this today, it may be slightly different and what have you. But the general concept here of using benchmarks to identify decentralization bottleneck is, I think, a useful and valuable one. Now, um, there's obvious objections, and I want to try to head some of those off to the past, right. So first, the choice of subsystems matters a great deal. Second, you might not consider all sorts of systems important. And third, very important question is these kinds of measurements mean anything to the actually relate to concrete attacks or is just, you know, kind of fooling around. And so just kind of enumerating those, you know, to discuss those obvious objections. So, for example, one point that vitalik brought up is, if you measure get versus parody versus swarm, those are actually you know, especially get them parody or like, you know, independent code bases, completely independent code bases. Whereas, if you look at the top Bitcoin clients, well, you know, Bitcoin Unlimited, and you know, ABC and so on, are basically forks of the Bitcoin Core code base, they're not full cleanroom implementations like btcd, or what have you. It turns out the most popular clients in the Bitcoin ecosystem are forks, right. So you can argue that those aren't actually truly independent code bases. And because of that, then, you know, it's more likely there's going to be a shared bug across these, there's going to be a shared bug across get the parity, right. Okay. So you want to define your subsystems carefully, and you can modify the metrics that I chose. That's why I said they're illustrative. They're not, you know, meant to be definitive, just to show the general idea. The second objection you might make is, you could say certain subsystems just don't matter to you. Right? So for example, Satoshi, you know, famously back in 2010, he said, You know, I don't believe a second compatible implementation of Bitcoin will ever be a good idea, right. So he would say, it doesn't matter, Dev, Dev centralization client, centralization, doesn't matter. But he does care about 31%. Tech, at least at that time. And then third is, you know, subsystems, you'd want them to map to attacks. So basically, if you have 25% compromise of mining, that might be more serious and 25% compromise counts, because you've executed, for example, a selfish mining attack if that attack is feasible, right. And so when we just sort of respond to all of these, collectively is, if you enumerate hypothesize attack types, then you can choose your subsystems accordingly, and then measure the decentralization of each one by something like the Nakamoto coefficient. So um, you know, for example, let's say that you, you know, are looking at the news, and maybe, you know, country x might nationalize or even acquire mining companies, right. In that case, you'd want to measure the hash rate across countries and make sure your system was robust to an attempted, you know, Chinese action, nationalization of mining. Another example is, if you expect, the attack that you're looking at is there's a bug in one client's codebase, you'd want to have market share across nodes spread out, such that, you know, you know, if there's something like the remote crash bugs and be you in Bitcoin Core, or the parity multi SIG bug, the entire ecosystem wouldn't be affected by one client. And just to be clear, everybody who's working on these projects, they're awesome engineers, and what have you, I'm saying nothing negative about them. Simply that, you know, maybe not having all eggs in one basket may be a good idea, if you

Unknown Speaker  13:49  
if you suspect this might be an issue for the ecosystem. third example. So if anybody remembers in 1996, Phil Zimmerman was prosecuted for, you know, rolling out PGP. So if you know only one developer is doing all the commits for an important client, well, there's a history and there's a precedent for, you know, government prosecution, or what have you of that individual. So having that spread out could be good if you think this is going to be attack and attack. For example, one that's not even theoretical. So you know, country shuts down exchanges. So in this case, you know, like the Chinese shut down, or btcc, you know, coin and we'll be, you'd want to have volume measured across countries and make sure no one country has, you know, too much of the volume such that if the country shuts it down, you can still operate in other countries, right. Um, fifth example. So if you've got nodes that are running on AWS, or Google Cloud, and they suddenly decide those nodes violate your acceptable use policy, you don't want to crash the network, right? So you want to make sure that you've got unique server entities that are that are serving them. And in some cases, for example, people will dial up hundreds of nodes on, you know, AWS, or Google Cloud. But that doesn't really fully add to the node count in the same way it might be able to process traffic, but it's not independent. control because it can all get shut down at the same time. So actually having independent IPS indepen control is very important if you believe this attack is a potential one. And then last just as an example, if you have a very, very unequal distribution of digital currency, at some point, there may be a political attack where those without digital currency vote or support seizure from those who haven't. So, you know, many examples of this in history, but a very recent one is in Venice, well, you know, people, you know, voted to reach Wheatland, and that really backfired. NPR, you know, has lots of articles on this, everybody does at this point. So that's an example of how, if you believe this is a potential attack in the future, you would want to actually, you know, maximize decentralization in terms of ownership across individuals. And again, these are not you know, just to show you some screenshots, if you've got mining centralization than China banning Bitcoin executives from leaving the country, that's a feasible attack. If you've got client centralization, then you know, the Bitcoin Core or the BU, or the parody, multi SIG, you know, tax would be bad. If you've got dev centralization, like this Zimmerman, you know, prosecution of Phil Zimmerman, then, you know, you don't want to have only one dev who has a knowledge, modify the code base, exchange centralization, you know, if it was all centralized in China, we would be in big trouble. Fortunately, it's not, there's Japan, and there's, you know, the US and others. Um, you know, this guy got his account shut down randomly by Google. So you really would not want Google or Amazon to be able to flip a switch and be able to turn off all nodes. And, you know, as an example of how holder centralization could be troublesome, you know, the IRS actually impose a threshold and said, anybody over $20,000, they want to investigate if they've done damage to a business on Coinbase, you're trying to just get a list of everybody, right. And so if that list was millions and millions of people, then there'll be more of a political outcry against, you know, this sort of thing. So, essentially, this is how you can think about decentralization providing resistance, a different kinds of attacks lead to different subsystems and measures. And for each of them, you can calculate a like a Nakamoto coefficient, you can say, okay, in the event, this attack happens, what is the impact on the Nakamoto coefficient? How, how much more centralized does it become if that attack happens? And how can we allocate resources to prevent that from happening? So, two more points, and then I'll quickly finish up. One thing I want to, you know, talk about is that even imperfect quantification can lead to useful results. I don't argue that this is the final metric or or what have you. But if you guys saw Silicon Valley, you know, the show, hot dog or not hot dog is actually a very sophisticated machine learning application, you wouldn't believe it, right. And, you know, so there's a great medium post on how they designed it. But one of the things just to keep in mind, if you guys have ever done any machine learning is no one feature determines what a hot dog is, you know, when you're doing supervised learning, or anything like that, it's all these imperfect kinds of heuristics. But collectively, they start to bring this fuzzy kind of object, this notion into being a combination can give you some results. Similarly, if you've seen this benchmarks game, this is actually, you know, a, it's very carefully phrased, this website doesn't say which programming language is the fastest, just like we don't say which blockchain is the most decentralized. It says which programming language is the fastest on this toy benchmark. And in the same way, which blockchain is most decentralized on this benchmark, that's kind of the thing I'd like to drive towards where we acknowledge benchmarks are flawed, but a collection of benchmarks can potentially give useful results and help us think about things. Finally, I would say, you know, decentralization cannot be in my view achieved through one coin alone, every group of you know, coin developers, token developers has a different thesis on what kinds of attacks they consider reasonable or probable. And so you know, strengthen numbers and a lack of monoculture I think, would be good. So that's one of the good things about this current Ico and token and coin mania is we're getting many, many different kinds of approaches, each of which hopefully, is robust in different ways, to different types of attacks, and decentralization.

Unknown Speaker  18:50  
So just a summary summarize, sort of propose a simple metric of decentralization, it tracks with our intuitive notions, given a list of subsystems, you can start with the tax, get subsystems that correspond to those tasks and and measure the Nakamoto coefficient for each one. And once you've got this, you can start putting it in dashboards and objective functions. So just in terms of what's next, we're doing two things. So we, if any of you guys, you know, want to come up afterwards, we'd be happy to fund a dev to do something at decentralized comm that URL doesn't resolve right now, but we have it. And so we'd like to get something like this benchmarks game with, you know, runs and Genie and Nakamoto coefficients for many different coins and subsystems. And each person just like the benchmarks game can check off the metrics that they think of as the most important, they can use that to argue with somebody on Twitter or Reddit, right, which is what we all love to do. Right? And, you know, so So this, I think will be fun, because it's something which at least starts to quantify this thing to all of us know is important. And I'm not saying this is the final way of doing it, but I do think that starts to move us in the right direction. The second thing we're doing is if you go to social token.com, we do have a new kind of token it's not an Ico. In fact, part of the goal with this is that rather than people giving capital for tokens, they would give us labor for tokens, and many, many more people can, you know, go to a website and click some buttons then can afford to invest thousands of dollars in a new coin. So if this works, you know, it would be highly decentralized by at least one measure, which is the number of holders. And that would protect us against a political attack where too many people don't have digital currency and they get mad at the people who do. I don't argue that it protects us against a mining attack. I don't argue that it protects us against a node attack or what have you. But I do think that a multitude of different approaches to protecting against attacks and decentralization is valuable. And this hopefully can contribute to that. So you can check that out at social token comm if you want and just go and go and sign up. So um, that's it, you know, thank you, and happy to take questions when, you know, for a few minutes, and then maybe we do the panel efforts. Yeah.

Unknown Speaker  20:53  
That's all we have time for a few questions. Joseph, do you want to get up here? Come up here and get set up? Yes, please. Yeah, it seems like anything that has to happen.

Unknown Speaker  21:07  
But that doesn't necessarily seem like it's

Unknown Speaker  21:13  
not the Yeah, so let's see. Bella, do you want to repeat the question? Yeah. So he said anything that has a really long tail is going to have a high Gini coefficient, but it doesn't mean that it's not decentralized. I would agree that and that's actually why we think this Nakamoto coefficient is starts to get you a better idea of what it is. Because basically, the nakoma coefficient is more intuitive. You can say it's a number of entities, you need to compromise, to control 51% of that subsystem. That's like something you can get your head around, it's like, okay, we need to control for miners in order to control 51% of hash rate, or we need to control 72 people in order to have more than 50% of aetherium. Right, that kind of thing. And that's, I think, easier to reason about.

Unknown Speaker  21:50  
Yes, sir. Let's take one from the other side.

Unknown Speaker  21:53  
Hey, thank you for doing this research is super important. I've seen a similar kind of analysis in brain research. And it might be useful to look into, if you crack open dead people's heads and look at their neural topology. Turns out that people are in a bell curve neurotypicals have average many column lengths. And then if you have unusually short, like, hyper connected clusters in your brain, then you're more autistic. And then if you have like, more stronger Global Connections, but weaker local connections, then you're more dyslexic. And, and then so they take these things like the poor metric, you know, between different points in the brain, and then they have a threshold, like you have they moved the threshold from zero to one, and then record how many of the connections are sort of the paths are less than that, that threshold or more, and how does that grow? And so if you get like really convex or concave anyway, I just want to say I thought there'd be no direction in classical cryptocurrency research, if anybody wants to really make a sacrifice for a theorem. I'm happy to crack it open and take a look. No, but actually, awesome idea. Thank you. Thank you. Yeah.

Unknown Speaker  23:01  
capitalism, the identical

Unknown Speaker  23:07  
ownership and operation

Unknown Speaker  23:12  
of capitalism? Well, I think we're actually, you know, on the cusp of something, which is step in which we can organize humans, right, like so, you know, aetherium, you know, is not something that vitalik is actually CEO of, right? Like, it's something that is a decentralized organization, where anybody can enter and take, like, almost the equivalent of an equity stake, and then work to make it better. And there's no direct command and control sort of hierarchy. And yet, folks have made money on it a lot of a lot of money. Um, so, you know, that preserve some of the aspects of capitalism and sense of folks and collaborate to, you know, put food on the table, but it is not as command and control. So, you know, I'd say economics is going to take a be a v2 over the next few years. Yeah.

Unknown Speaker  23:54  
One more can we take one more question? Yeah, please. Yeah. Yeah.

Unknown Speaker  24:03  
So my question really is around, we talked about decentralization. And you introduced a social token, for example, which is really introducing it to a broader amount of people. But is there is there actually an aspect of the self selection that would actually ends up with the steel being centralized around those who would have access or know about our participant participate in it in the first place? And what's the impact of that initial connection between those aspects?

Unknown Speaker  24:28  
That's a good, good question. So in general, I think lots of technologies, start with the 1%. And then they get to the 10%, and in the middle class, and then they get to, you know, the nine 9%, and so on. So cell phones are great example, in the 80s. That was just a province of super rich guys on Wall Street. And you know, today we've got billions of cell phones and you know, folks in India and Africa and so on, actually, I saw stat recently that more than 50% of world now has a cell phone. And so the thinking is, this is I'm not saying it's a final step, but this is the next step. I think in start To get a much larger cross section of folks involved in digital currency, and then you know from that hopefully we can build from that base and get it even more mainstream over time.

Unknown Speaker  25:08  
It's very cool. Thank you.

Unknown Speaker  25:10  
Fantastic.

Transcribed by https://otter.ai
