Unknown Speaker  0:07  
All right. Okay, so um, you know, initially I had a much more technical engineering talk, but was told as a broad audience at the end, I'll give an email. And for those folks who want that technical engineering talk, just email me there, and maybe we can do a smaller group. So, um, you know, just, uh, you know that that's me. And prior to getting into blockchain, I also actually founded and sold a genomics company for to marry. And previously to that I taught at Stanford. I just want to give like one visual here, which is maybe the the most important visual for how I and how we think about the space, which is that blockchain has turned payments into packets. And this over here is a screenshot of Wireshark. And you can actually see you know, TCP and IP and then on top of it the the Bitcoin protocol itself, and you can see a mind block, you can see that there's no reference to a Wells Fargo, there's no reference to any country, it is just pure packets that are being sent back and forth over the network. And the last time we had something like that was, you know, with the internet, where we took books, and movies, and music and, and videos, and we turn them into packets, and that's the internet revolution that we're running through right now. And now we're taking, you know, not just cash, but stocks, bonds, commodities, mortgages, derivatives, you know, everything from video game potions to parcels of parcels of real estate, and putting them into packets and then trading them on the blockchain. And this is, you know, how I think about what's going on. So today, we're going to give 10 you know, broad concepts about blockchain 10 things about coin base, and then maybe, maybe take some questions. And we'll start really, really basic and then get to more and maybe interesting things just to level set with the audience. So I'm just a just the very basics here, motivation behind Bitcoin console, blockchain rising aetherium, Ico boom. Okay. So the motivation behind Bitcoin, you know, you start with physical cash, right. And with physical cash, it has this implicit scarcity, where party a can transfer it to party B, and the dollar bill actually moves

Unknown Speaker  2:11  
right. As we move from physical cash, you try to take $1 bill and you try to treat it as naive digital cash, will the serial number on that dollar bill, if you go and email it to somebody and try to treat that as digital cash? Well, you can email it to somebody else. And there is no inherent scarcity. And this is, you know, the the so called double spend problem, right? You could double spend that serial number. So until the invention of Bitcoin, the way that we dealt with digital cash, the motivation behind it was we did it with a centralized thing, we had a bank in the middle that would debit a and credit B. And that's where that, you know, fundamental scarcity in the system arose. And that central actor, that bank was trusted to debit a and credit B, until the invention of Bitcoin, at which point we had decentralized digital cash. And now you have a network of miners in the center that do the debits and credits, and no one of them can block the transaction because any one of them is probabilistically incentivized to approve the transaction. And so this is the kind of 1234 of you know, how Bitcoin was invented, and why it's, you know, kind of useful, obviously, you know, we we took that concept underneath underpinning Bitcoin, an abstracted out to the blockchain. And over the last few years, you know, we've had the rise of aetherium, which, you know, gives us a programming language that's easier to work with than bitcoins assembly. And then, much more recently, the Ico boom over the last year, which I think of as the simultaneous disruption of venture capital, swift crowdfunding and cap tables, right venture capital, because you can now raise online crowdfunding, because, you know, where you go from $10 million, you know, being a large online crowdfunding 2015 to 100 million or a billion dollars, you know, today, Swift, because rather than doing international wires in two to three days, you can now do it within, you know, really minutes using using something like aetherium and cap tables, because going from on the order of 100 people on a cap table, you can go to 10,000, or even 100,000 holders of a token. And so, you know, the the fundamental innovation and financial infrastructure that's happened here is actually really dramatic. Even if many of the projects themselves may not work. The actual financing mechanism is a true major innovation across a lot of different frontiers simultaneously. So that brings us you know, brief recap brings us to the present day. And I want to talk about, you know, where we think blockchain is and maybe give you a an interesting vantage point on it. So, we think of blockchain as a database that's optimized for storing things of value on and why do we say that? Well, if you've got database for storing things of value, you may not just trust any old person to update it. You may not want to have a centralized actor being able to update it, you because if they could, they could award themselves a million dollars or a billion dollars. So for storing things of value, we may want a different kind of database, a decentralized database where The ability to ward yourself a million dollars on is computationally costly enough that it costs you more than a million dollars to do that. And once you can solve that, and we saw that with Bitcoin, you've got, you know, the basis for recording these debits and credits in a scarce way, you could extend that, and we aren't saying that to tokens, which are like a form of equity. And then two more digital assets, like, you know, NF Ts, and then also things like identity. But in all of these cases, you're basically, you know, storing things of value. And this kind of tamper resistant database has many consequences. One of them is that, you know, as I mentioned earlier, we've turned payments into packets, right? And because, you know, you now have a binary representation of payments, any machine can now hold and send money, right. And this is actually a new thing, you can actually have an intelligent agent, that is a program that earns on its own, right, it's got a, you know, wallet, it's got a Bitcoin or aetherium address, it can send and receive, it can actually do everything, you know, for you if you if you program it well enough. And the first versions of these intelligent agents are just the trading bots that are doing arbitrage on different exchanges, right. But over time, they may start to interact with the real world, for example, scripting, a self driving car to go and you know, pay for its own gas and to fill itself pay for its tire repairs, etc, you could actually have more autonomous agents that can actually pay for themselves. And we've already seen what can happen once you can have a computer that can do communication autonomously that gave us drones that gave us you know, a lot of you know, autonomous robotics on it's giving us self driving cars, once it can actually transact autonomously, that'll be a pretty, pretty interesting and big deal, right? So the fact that machines can now hold and send money is one of the more interesting consequences of the of the blockchain revolution.

Unknown Speaker  6:51  
an artifact that I wanted to kind of underline is, there's a lot of talk about blockchains future and its potential and whatnot. But it's kind of useful to stress what has already occurred, right? The blockchain has already created at least three large classes of billion dollar entities. There's the people who have invented new coins and tokens that's created billions of dollars in wealth. There's the folks who have mined them on and built like, kind of the the hardware infrastructure. And then there's the exchanges, who have also, you know, done billions in revenue and volume collectively. And so that's kind of useful and interesting, because a lot of people are prone to dismissing the blockchain space is all hype and all future stuff, but it's actually already created multiple different kinds of valuable commercially valuable entities relatedly blockchains have already tenex many underlying pieces of financial infrastructure, okay, so you know, we can start with gold, right? With Bitcoin it is 10 X, you know, cheaper, faster, you know, to transport internationally, we can look to Swift. And we can note that basically, wire transfers with Swift, are much, much faster to execute with with the theorem than with Swift. You go from days to seconds or minutes, we look at Kickstarter, and we say, Hey, you know, Ethereum is actually a better Kickstarter, you've gone from $10 million to like more than 100 million dollars. And we can think about even things like Delaware incorporation. Where you know, the time to incorporate in many countries is something that the World Bank measures, and it's doing business study. And we've taken that now from weeks or days, down to really minutes, right. Same thing with other kinds of things like, like setting up an address to receive money. And so the thing about this is, you know, even if you don't believe in the projects that are being funded, the financial infrastructure is getting improved with actual quantifiable tax improvements. And that's a that's a big deal. fifth point, people talk a lot about crypto being trustless. But blockchain means you have a choice of who to trust, right before you had to trust a bank. Now, you trust an exchange, or you can trust a your own laptop, you actually have a choice. Sixth point, I mentioned this before, but it's worth elaborating. blockchains, enable internet scale cap tables. So it used to be that you'd manage your cap table in Excel with maybe 100 rows. And now with a theorem, you have 10s of thousands or even hundreds of thousands of quote rows on your coin table. And if you think about what built Silicon Valley, it was alignment, it was the fact that a lot of people together were equity aligned, and could build something and that lot was on the order of a few hundred. Now we can align 10s of thousands or hundreds of thousands of people behind the same objective on the internet. That's a completely new phenomenon. And that's a really important consequence of blockchains they allow us to scale cap tables internationally in a way that was never possible before. Um, one thing we think about is that blockchain first as a new mobile first, I won't go through every example here but there is you know that there are different things that are happening in social network. works in messaging and payments in equity crowdfunding, but also in areas that you wouldn't normally think of as things that you could disrupt like actual protocols going after DNS with DNS, going after browsers going after things like AWS, you know, in each case, you might not call the blockchain competitor, a direct competitor, I think it'll be a long time before filecoin can, you know, have the throughput to compete with an s3, but it does do things that s3 can't do, which is, you know, public replicated, Amazon can't take it down, etc. And we're going to see a lot of these kinds of things. Because when you build blockchain first, your users have balances, they can encrypt. Um, there's, there's new capabilities in the same way that, you know, a mobile phone gave your users a camera that give them video to get the things they couldn't do on the desktop. If we think of blockchains is a very powerful tool that can break network effects. So you know, with with something like Facebook, with a with a large social network, the larger the social network is, you know, the more value there is. But with, you know, and that was considered something impregnable. Until relatively recently, with the blockchain with a token though, you can actually issue a token and you can offset that network effect, such that an early adopter of your network can actually get utility. And now, they actually are like a, like an angel investor, an angel investor who invest in Snapchat, and the A has more upside than an angel investor invest in Snapchat and the CEO or a venture investor rather. And that kind of same thing can now be applied not to investors, but to your users. You can incentivize them to take a flyer on your new network, and you can bootstrap a network effect in a completely new way. I think this will be a powerful tool to attack network effects of all kinds. knifepoint on blockchains transform social networks. So you know, for the last decade and a half, we've all been liking and poking and tweeting at each other. But hey, you know, now we've had 10 years of making friends time to start making money haha.

Unknown Speaker  11:53  
And so on the edges of these new social networks, we think that there's going to actually be cryptocurrency. So you would be able to, you know, earn as easily as you can tweet, you can pay as easily as you can like, and you actually start turning these social networks into more useful things into digital economies, where people are on there, and they're not accumulating followers or accumulating money. And that's actually, you know, useful in a more fundamental way, you can actually transport it off the system, you can use it as followers, likes, etc, are inherent to a system and they're not directly, you know, monetizable 10th point, we think of blockchain as a partial move away from the cloud towards privacy, the fact that there's more than a million hardware wallets sold just by ledger, indicates that lots and lots of people are kind of rediscovering the need for at least partial local storage. And one possible way this May all work out is folks would have their private keys locally, but their data in the cloud would be encrypted by those private keys. And, you know, we may eventually figure out things with like homomorphic encryption, where you could actually do computation on that remote data without actually allowing anybody to view it. I think this an important medium to long term trend that folks should be aware of. So those are 10 things about blockchain, let me briefly go through 10 things about Coinbase. So Coinbase, we think of it as like the interface between Fiat and crypto. You know, we have the retail interface where you can just go and buy bitcoin and we have the professional interface. On the Fiat side, we're building like a wall street 2.0 with analogues of custody, index, fund commerce, etc. And on the crypto side, we're doing blockchain first apps, things like our wallet, which allow you to browse and interact with daps, or earn which allow you to earn cryptocurrency for doing things. We do work closely with regulators because we're the interface between this Fiat and crypto world. And we have to have aspects of both in order to maintain and keep that bridge open the bridge between Fiat and crypto, our long term mission, you know, we want to create this more open financial system for the world. And that's something which, you know, sounds maybe trite or what have you, but it means something that's less closed and the the New York based financial system of this time. And, you know, we think that that has both upside and downside, you know, the upside, of course, is that you can move millions of dollars in a few seconds. The downside is, those millions of dollars can be moved off of your computer, which wouldn't be as good. And we do think that you can mitigate those downsides with things like multi SIG. We are bridging from the investment to the utility phase. And one of our most important concepts, I think, is that, like, speculation was installation, that is to say, the speculative phase of the last, you know, 810 years, installed something in people's brains, which said, Hey, crypto is actually valuable. It has a market value, I can exchange it for US dollars. And that was actually a prerequisite for building any apps. Without the investment phase. I don't think you get the utility phase because people would think it's all funny money. It's only because lots of folks understand, hey, this stuff could be worth millions is worth millions, is worth billions, that folks can actually use it as a payment rail. They have to actually value it on both sides. So I think the investment phase was a critical prerequisite. Coinbase is named after where the blockchain starts, you know, named after you know the Coinbase transaction in a Bitcoin block. And fittingly, we think of it as where the blockchain starts for users, right just like you start using Windows with the Start button or Google with the search box, Facebook with the with a login, or you know, and so on. We think of Coinbase is where you buy bitcoin and you get started. And we've been making headlines. So, you know, I've got much more for you all. I've got a short talk today. If you want to hear more, just get in touch typology s plus SF BWI coinbase.com. Thanks

Transcribed by https://otter.ai
