Unknown Speaker  0:07  
So today I'm going to talk about something that I'm calling the pseudonymous economy. And you know, I want to motivate it, you know, why should we want this thing, then how might we build it? So further ado, let me just jump in. So first, you know, we're going to talk about what is pseudonymity? Then why stone is coming? how might it work? How can you build it? So what is pseudonymity? It is,

Unknown Speaker  0:31  
it is not anonymity.

Unknown Speaker  0:33  
So, you know, if you're, if you're thinking about a

Unknown Speaker  0:35  
real name, you know,

Unknown Speaker  0:36  
for example, on Facebook, people typically use real names. On 4chan people are typically anonymous. But on places like Reddit and sometimes Twitter, people are pseudo anonymous, where they have a name that is sort of a persistent kind of thing that gains reputation associated with it, but it's not a real name. It's not your global unique identifier they use on official forums. And, you know, the the concept here of pseudonymity. The reason it's important to singers from anonymity is that tsunami provides accountability. But as we'll see, it's also a shield against character assassination. So one of the reasons I wanted to talk about this and direct people's attention towards this is, I believe pseudonymity is as important as decentralization I'll be under, you know, kind of focused on and the reason is that while the Bitcoin network was decentralized, Satoshi Nakamoto, was also pseudonymous. And that meant that the state couldn't play either the man or the ball. Okay, so it meant that you couldn't go after the person, you know, who built a network, and you couldn't shut down the network itself. And it was critical in the early days of Bitcoin. And we're seeing some, you know, sort of the opposite of that now with like government hearings on Libra and so on, if you have a highly named network, and it's centralized, you've got kind of both, both points vulnerable. So Sydney is as important as decentralization especially for certain kinds of applications. And one important concept is pseudonymity is not a 01. It's a continuum. So there's this really powerful concept called 33 bits by Arvind Narayanan, he popularized

Unknown Speaker  2:10  
it as a prophet at Princeton. And the basic idea is that to the 33rd power is a billion or a little more than 1,000,000,008.6. And there's only seven something billion people in the world. So with 33 independent bits of information, you can D anonymize somebody. Now, if if they have zero bits of anonymity, left, then you know exactly who they are, if they have, let's say, 10 bits of anonymity left, they're one out of two, the 10 people, so about one out of 1024, if they have 20 bits of NVMe, left, they're one out of, you know, to the 20th. So about one out of a million. And so in this fashion, you can try to say, okay, you know, I have a number of bits of pseudonymity, a number of bits of anonymity. And it's a continuum, as opposed to being a totally 01 discrete thing. Now, tsunamis already mainstream, I guess everybody saw, you know, peer delicto from last week, which is Mitt Romney. But James Comey was also using the pseudonym online. And this is happening at the very, you know, most senior levels of government, but it's also happening, you know, among like Gen Z teenagers, kids will set up so called Insta, and rinse does, you know, like a fake Instagram account under a fake name and a real Instagram account under a real name. And what's funny is their their fake self under their real name, they're in their Sunday best or their Bar Mitzvah clothing, or what have you. And they're smiling for the camera, and they're their real self under their fake name. And so these, both kids and adults alike have fashion these search resistant identities, where you have hundreds of millions of people, like Reddit alone is several hundred

Unknown Speaker  3:47  
million,

Unknown Speaker  3:49  
who use synonyms on a daily basis. And they do so not to commit crimes or anything like that, but simply to be able to discuss without retaliation. And so pseudonymity is already mainstream in over the last 1020 years, we've built up hundreds of millions of people who use sometimes multiple pseudonyms. And I think the big next step is going to be not just pseudonymous communication, but pseudonymous

Unknown Speaker  4:10  
transaction.

Unknown Speaker  4:12  
So this is where I think society is going. And there's several like kind of correlated vectors towards this at the top is Google multiple accounts support every major you know, social media company, tech company, whether it's Twitter, Facebook, Google, etc. Now offers multiple accounts support, if only to allow you to move between your your individual account and your corporate account for placing ads or issuing corporate tweets or what have you. But that's now actually something that's very common. Many people have multiple accounts, and they just use them in different contexts. So that's one big driver is just the technological support for it across many different services. The second driver is employment law, where increasingly people don't want to even inadvertently discriminate against somebody. So you don't ask about marital status or immigration status or you know, other kinds of things. In a job interview and and the third reason for pseudonymity is basically social media mobs which can attack you and debit your reputation, and you have no recourse. So these are kind of three different vectors that are sort of pushing in towards why people would want to use pseudonyms, you know, online and then employment context and so on. Okay, so that's kind of what a tsunami give some initial motivation. Why a pseudonymous economy? So, you know, there's this guy, Yakov Smirnoff, you know, in the 80s, he had this one liner, which said, you know, in the Soviet Union, we also have freedom of speech, but in America, you have freedom after speech. Okay, so, the the point of pseudonymity is it allows freedom after speech, you can't retaliate against a person, you can only retaliate against their ideas. And, you know, that's why, you know, it's Toshi Nakamoto. Basically, the man or the woman or the people who did this, they can be denounced under the name Satoshi Nakamoto, praised this cloud of millions of articles swirls around the pseudonym, but the person walks unscathed. You know, if without a real name, you have no GPS location, you can't send them the drones. So, you know, when we talk about freedom after speech, social media mobs are now routine. You know, this is this is something which anybody who's posted on social media has seen this. And the the way of thinking about it is negative press on social media. It actually, it's not true that sticks and stones can, you know, break your bones, but words can never hurt you. The way that it works is negative press, negative social media, is an attack on your social network. And this visual over here, I think, encapsulates one of the reasons why one would want a pseudonym. If for example, you have friends, or partners, employers, investors, customers, who read and respect a particular news outlet, that news outlet when they published an article saying that, you know, you're now a bad person has right access to their brains. If they read and respect this news outlet, and they see that you're now a bad person. Well, in the after scenario, you know, some of them break ties, the investor doesn't, you know, like, like, close the close a deal, the employee quits, and the third person may not totally quit or break the deal, but they may retreat to what is contractually obligated. And so in this fashion, like negative press, negative social media, it's like a it's like a mortar, landing in your social network, a phrase the ties, breaks the ties. But if instead, the article is announcing your pseudonym, now, it doesn't matter. You walk on scanned, there's no damage done to your social network. Nobody can, nobody knows nobody can map it. The concept of too much information, you know, is now clickable. And basically, the way I think about this is tsunami defends against social supply chain disruptions, in the same way that you've got a supply chain disruption for a component, if you're a hardware manufacturer, you know, like, Are my is my rare earth elements? Are they arriving on time, you know, that kind of thing? My glass, your your social network, also as a supply chain, and your key investor, your key employee, your key customer, they can't go south on you as easily if what is being denounced as your pseudonym as opposed to you. Okay,

Unknown Speaker  8:22  
so how am I how might a pseudonymous economy work?

Unknown Speaker  8:26  
Well, the way I think about it is your bank account is your store wealth, but your real name is your store reputation. And one sort of visual is, you know, you as you accumulate wealth in your bank account, the number goes up on Twitter, which we're going to use is like a working example. It's certainly not everything, but it's a, it's at least one slice of the of the problem. You know, as you kind of tweet you, you accumulate followers, so it's like your stored reputation. And while only you can debit your bank account, you know, by entering in your pin, anybody can debit your reputation. You know, there's a, there's a funny tweet, which says, on Twitter, everyday, there's a main character and your goal is to never be it. Okay, I think that's funny. So, you know, one way to deal with this is to separate out your earning your speaking and your real names. So your real name would just be used on official forums, like a like your social security number, you don't just disclose that casually use that on official forums. You know, when the government needs needs that official input, when speaking, he's a pseudonym, like comfortably small group or someone like that. And when earning and this is the new part you would earn under a pseudonym, you might have a GitHub handle under that you basically just have a professional identity. And where you would, you know, tweet about or speak about is something that's relevant to that professional

Unknown Speaker  9:46  
identity.

Unknown Speaker  9:48  
And you know, you don't have to have just like one earning and one speaking and one real name. You might have only one real name, but you might have many different speaking names, many different earning names, just like in the same way that you might use separate credit cards for Every,

Unknown Speaker  10:01  
you know, like, like merchant that you you

Unknown Speaker  10:05  
buy from, you know, privacy.com laws at the new Apple card allows that it kind of gives a default privacy in the same way that you might use multiple emails like your name plus foo, to go and sign up at a website to give some kind of isolation and scoping, you could use different names for different contexts. And so as a way of sort of formulating a technical problem, we can already move wealth to a pseudonym, can we move reputation as well, in the top right, you can see, you know, take $100,000 in USD, you can buy z cash at Coinbase, for example, and you can have 50 k left under your real name, and you can move 50 K to a pseudonym. So we can now transfer wealth to a pseudonym. The question is, can we transfer some reputation to a pseudonym? So for example, in the bottom is Marc Andreessen, 700 k followers, could it be possible to set up an account where, you know, the original account stays with 700 k followers, but there's a new pseudonymous account that has like 100 k followers or something like that? Is it possible to trade off some reputation in return for some anonymity rather than all versus all? And so I'll give a cryptographic construction kind of a thought experiment here as to how we might build something like this. So let's take the special case of Twitter, you know, in Twitter, you know, both real names and pseudonyms, you know, coexisting on, and we're going to sort of describe like over the next few slides, a few constructions, it'll get us to like a special crypto Twitter. This is the kind of thing that people in crypto are thinking about people are building on, there's a few primitives, new primitives, you need to, to build for this. So we'll start kind of application first, and then describe what you need on the back end. So just to motivate, you know, we talked earlier about how soon b can be quantified in bits on the x axis. And also we can, we're going to quantify reputation, the number of followers on the y axis, and right now you kind of have two choices. Either you can have zero, pseudonymity, and all your followers, so you're operating under your real name, or you can have total pseudonymity, and no followers and just set up a new, you know, like fake account or pseudonymous account. And so an interesting question is, is there something in the middle? Can we trade off some degree of pseudonymity? For some, you know, to gain some followers? Or is there there's something between those two extreme points? And,

Unknown Speaker  12:30  
yeah, that's what I meant about the information need to identify you that there are three bits.

Unknown Speaker  12:34  
So we can we turn off some pseudonymity for some distribution. And here's a naive approach. Okay, so this data structure here, it's called, you know, the adjacency matrix in a graph. In the upper left, we see, you know, kind of an individual, in this case, Mark, and, you know, he's got four people pointing into him. And those are represented in the first row by four ones, because those folks are pointing him in him, they're following him, rather than vice versa. So it's a symmetric matrix. Now, if we did the most naive approach, where a new pseudonym was booted up, and all of the followers were ported over to that new pseudonym, the problem is that anybody who was analyzing this graph would see that the vector of followers was the same between these two people, basically, that you know, that they're really part of the same network. And you could, you could see that those two patterns were extremely similar of zeros and ones. And so there would be effectively 00 pseudonymity, you wouldn't have any any bits of pseudonymity. So that's bad. And so the naive approach is simply setting up a new account and transferring all your followers to it doesn't work. Okay. Can we do something smarter? What if we transfer at a stations fungible at a stations, rather than the entire non fungible list of followers? And so how would that work? So if we go back to, you know, a Twitter profile, there's kind of three types of data there. There's the data that is put there by the platform, like the user's verification, there's a data which is stated by the individual themselves, like their, you know, their name, their location, their bio, there's data that is input by third parties, like the followers, the likes, and there are teas. The first and the third are actually relatively hard to fake. The second like the name, location and bio, you know, that's just self adaptation. So it's not, it's not as

Unknown Speaker  14:21  
secure.

Unknown Speaker  14:22  
Let's focus on the first one, the the verification,

Unknown Speaker  14:26  
what we could do is we could set up something where, you know, Mark sets up a new pseudonym, and then does a zero knowledge adaptation if if the back end of this new crypto Twitter allowed it, that would push over the bit that says that he's a verified user. Okay, so we linger on that. So essentially, you're moving something from one account to another account, like a zero knowledge add station. And what's cool about this, is that if we think about it from the perspective of how much pseudonymity you're giving up in the first case, you're, you know, completely unique, you have zero bits of, you know, pseudonymity anonymity. In the second case, if you're just a pure new, you know, fake account or pseudonymous account, you can be any one of the 330 million ma use on Twitter. So you have about 28 something bits of anonymity. But there's about 330,000 verified users. So if you move over that bit of verification, you're now one of 330,000 verifies, you've given up 10 bits of anonymity. And so we can now quantify the trade off between pseudonymity and reputation. And that's new. And that's really, I think, interesting and powerful because variants of this can be applied to all major social networks and so on. Okay. So we're making progress. We've got a construction that will move over the fungible fields, where other people share them. There's other people who share that verified flag, as opposed to the non fungible follower vector, which other people do not share. Okay. So now, you know, the obvious question arises, well, can we do more? Yes, of course, we could do more, you could also port over, you know, the fact that you have more than 100 k followers under one account, or that you're followed by jack or something like that. And each such at a station that you pour over, you can determine prior to porting it, how much of a pseudonymity decrease it is, of course, if Jacqueline follows, you know, one person, you have D, anonymize yourself, but by doing this, but you can see that prior to porting over that, that station, and of course, it's not, you know, just some degree common tutorial, if you have 100,000 followers, and jack follows you, that is less anonymity than either one of those independently. So you just have to calculate the joint distribution. Okay, very doable. But there's another problem that now arises, which is, okay, we've set up this new thing. It's got this verification and these other kinds of adaptations attached to it. How do we get followers for this. And so there's, there's another kind of construction, which will, which we'll want, which is something I call auto follow. So the idea here is that folks would be on a network like this, in order to hear from pseudonymous accounts in part. And so they would set up a flag, which is like,

Unknown Speaker  17:14  
okay, I'll auto

Unknown Speaker  17:14  
follow anybody who is has poured over verification who's who's got more than, you know, 10 k followers, who, you know, if jack follows him, any sit on his account, then boots up like this is kind of interesting. It's, it's just like, you could follow a person or you could follow a hashtag, you could follow pseudonyms accounts that have a certain level of these adaptations. And so now you set up a pseudonym, and you move or verification. And now because those people have auto follow set up for verification, boom, you get some followers. And this is not that hard to implement, if this is how the network is set up. But this would now start to have something where people could use pseudonyms on kind of a more reasonable level, and they could actually pull over some of their distribution. Moreover, they can know of their existing followers, how many were set up to auto follow accounts that had particular adaptations associated with them, so you can calculate how much followers you'd get for a particular pseudonym. Okay, so let's assume that like 150, K, of the 700 k followers have this auto follow setup. So in this case, we have a construction, which yields an intermediate identity, it doesn't have the full 700 K, it has 150 K, that auto follow setup, it doesn't have full anonymity of 28.3 bits of being one of 330 million people. It's one of 330,000 people. But still, that's pretty good, right? We we have, you know, we can quantify the reduction anonymity due to porting over the station. And we can quantify how much distribution you've retained due to auto follow up. And this gives you a way of sort of configuring a anonymity, reputation trade off, and you can negotiate other points along that line. Now, this means we can now move both wealth and reputation to a pseudonym by kind of implementing these two new sort of back end constructs. There's different ways of doing this, you might set up a new crypto Twitter where you get a bunch of folks to move over there on there's a degree of strength and numbers. So you want to have a large enough critical mass. So that part I kind of leave is something we're going to have to build our next 1010, maybe 20 years. But so you know, well aware, you know, kind of if you if you're a physicist, there's this concept of assume a spherical cow. And everything's become simple, sort of assuming your crypto Twitter makes things simple, but this is sort of a motivational kind of thing. And I think it's interesting for crypto devs to think about an important feature

Unknown Speaker  19:39  
of a crypto social network. So a bunch of people are building these things.

Unknown Speaker  19:43  
So just in summary, we discuss what is pseudonymity you know, you've got your real name, your pseudonym and your antonym. And those are three different things, a pseudonym has persistent reputation. We talked about you know why you'd want a pseudonymous economy and the answer is by separating out your earning and yours Picking names. Having some social media attack on you doesn't affect your daily economics. It doesn't affect your your social network supply chain. How could it work, we separate out your earning your speaking and your real names. And we build it with this cryptographic construct or something similar, that allows you to trade off some anonymity for some reputation. And I'm open to other ways of accomplishing this beyond the one that I outlined. But I just wanted to at least set up the problem and provide, you know, one sort of thought experiment solution. Okay, so that's it. And follow me on twitter if you if you'd like this stuff. Thanks.

Unknown Speaker  20:40  
I think we have time for a question or two people want to Yeah.

Unknown Speaker  20:48  
Yeah. So the question

Unknown Speaker  20:49  
was, how do you handle offline to online, on and I think the thing is, if you're offline, it's sort of hard to operate under a pseudonym, because you can be face recognized, and so on and so forth. There's folks who have worked on this with like CV dazzle like makeup that makes you face recognition resistant? I'd say that, like, I don't have a good solution for that yet. Just have think about the online part right now.

Unknown Speaker  21:28  
Great question. So her, her question is, how do you handle the the issue of content analysis, for example, joe klein in the 90s, wrote this book, primary colors, and was eventually D anonymized with something called stylometric D anonymization. where you can go and analyze the frequency of stopwords other kinds of things and figure out who they are? Well, one answer is there's new AI techniques called style transfer. And just like you can transfer the style of like a like a wallpaper

Unknown Speaker  21:54  
to another image. You can also

Unknown Speaker  21:57  
have a style transfer thing that would have you write like Hemingway, or write like Jane Austen. So you write your normal text, you punch it through style transfer,

Unknown Speaker  22:05  
and it will translate it

Unknown Speaker  22:06  
not into another language, but into the Argo, another kind of speaker. And that's kind of an interesting way of sort of defeating stylometric D anonymization. Look at my Twitter, I there's a paper that I liked, like Balaji, stylometric Vietnamization, it's I don't think it's like, I don't think there's a production one yet out there. But the papers are out there. So you can implement it. Sir? How do you keep people from selling the guns they spin up? Um, well, it is, it is certainly possible to do that I actually don't even think that's necessarily bad. It just means that you have somewhat less trust in you know, that users kind of utterances, or what have you, you might do something where, at least at the platform level, you link it to the same private key with their their main account? And then if so, you know, you could you could do something where they would be giving up their money or their access to their money by doing that. There's various kinds of constructions. I think that's a good question.

Unknown Speaker  23:20  
In Oh, what could that identity be in free private cities? Stay tuned.

Unknown Speaker  23:25  
So the identity in free private cities, I think.

Unknown Speaker  23:29  
I think what's going to happen is that social media and cryptocurrency are causing the unbundling and re bundling of the nation state. And that's, that's like a 20 or 30 or 40 year kind of voyage. And we're just at the beginning of that. And I think over time, what you're going to find are you're going to have cryptocurrencies that are integrated with, like the fabric of a nation state. And that's, you know, Estonia is kind of like one of the first along this line with the digital, you know, residency that you're gonna see much more like that.

Unknown Speaker  23:56  
Okay, thanks.

Transcribed by https://otter.ai
