Unknown Speaker  0:00  
Bitcoin is underappreciated even to this day, the public focus is usually on the speculative value, what's the price of bitcoin, but Bitcoin has functional value as a technology platform. If I want to make 100 transactions with my bank for a single sent, the bank won't allow it. Our current financial infrastructure is not set up for micro payments. Bitcoin is built with micro payments in mind. As Bitcoin works through its governance issues and its scalability problems, we will see gradual improvement in financial liquidity between people and machines. 21 is a company that has raised 100 and $20 million to make Bitcoin useful to developers. This is a long term project. And the first step of that project is to get Bitcoin in the hands of users. To fulfill that end, 21 is developing services that encourage people to make small digital transactions. The first service is the 21 messaging service, where users can pay to send messages to people who are unlikely to respond to an unsolicited email. For example, if I want to send an email to a venture capitalist pitching my company, I am more likely to get a response if I pay that venture capitalist $20 to read my message through 21 rather than if I send a cold email from my email address. Balaji Srinivasan is the CEO of 21. And he joins me for a conversation about the potential of Bitcoin and the objectives of the company that he is building. Software Engineering daily is having our third meetup, Wednesday, May 3 at galvanize in San Francisco. And the theme of this meetup is fraud and risk in software. One of the guests is going to be the data science head of Coinbase. So if you're interested in Bitcoin, if you're listening to this episode, because of that, then you might like that talk at the meetup. We're gonna have great food, we're gonna have engaging speakers. And as always a friendly intellectual atmosphere. If you want to find out more, go to software engineering daily.com slash meetup. Now let's get on with this episode.

Unknown Speaker  2:17  
For years, when I started building a new app, I would use MongoDB. Now I use MongoDB Atlas MongoDB Atlas is the easiest way to use MongoDB. in the cloud, it's never been easier to hit the ground running MongoDB Atlas is the only Database as a Service from the engineers who built Mongo DB. The dashboard is simple and intuitive, but it provides all the functionality that you need. The customer service is staffed by people who can respond to your technical questions about Mongo with continuous backup, VPC peering, monitoring, and security features. MongoDB Atlas gives you everything you need from MongoDB in an easy to use service. And you could forget about needing to patch your Mongo instances and keep it up to date. Because Atlas automatically updates its version. Check out mongodb.com slash se daily to get started with MongoDB Atlas and get $10 credit for free. And even if you're already running MongoDB in the cloud, Atlas makes migrating your deployment from another cloud service provider trivial with its live import feature. Get started with a free three node replica set. No credit card is required. As an exclusive offer for software engineering daily listeners, use code s ee daily for $10 credit when you're ready to scale up, go to mongodb.com slash se daily to check it out. And thanks to MongoDB for being a repeat sponsor of software engineering daily, it means a whole lot to us.

Unknown Speaker  4:13  
Apologies Srinivasan is the CEO of 21 Balaji Welcome to software engineering daily. Hi, Jeff. It's great to be here. Bitcoin is underappreciated even to this day, the public focus is usually the speculative value. And this is true even amongst software engineers. And I know that 21 is working to make products that are usable by everyday people, because you want to get Bitcoin in the hands of everyday people. So it starts becoming a utility rather than just a unit of speculation. And the first product in that category is the inbox product. Explain what the 21 inbox product does.

Unknown Speaker  4:55  
Absolutely, Jeff. So the the concept behind the twin inbox product is that You can now get paid to read email and complete messages and tasks online. And the reason that's interesting is right now there have been two ways that people have obtained digital currency. The first is mining it, and the second is buying it. And this is a third way to get it, which is earning it. And the utility of getting Bitcoin by earning it by performing a micro task is that you don't need to put a piece of hardware there. And you don't need to whip out your credit card on. So you're neither spending your store wealth nor, you know, electricity or what have you. Now, there are situations where you don't want to mind or buy digital currency. But this third complimentary way is very interesting if we can scale it up. And certainly people answer millions and millions and millions of emails and messages per day. So it's a way that we think you can actually mainstream Bitcoin and get into the hands of lots of people pretty quickly if if it works at scale.

Unknown Speaker  5:59  
So we envision a world where celebrities have used this on a regular basis, some regular people have used this on a regular basis, and you've got, say, 10,000 people who now have a little bit of Bitcoin, on their digital wallet, what can you do in that world that you couldn't do before?

Unknown Speaker  6:18  
Great question. So I think, you know, the world really changes once we start to get not 10,000 people with it, but on the order of a million to 10 million people. Because right now, where Bitcoin is it's sort of topped out in terms of growth, that is to say there was an early group of, you know, let's say between 10 to 100,000, people that, you know, was the community from, say 2009 to 2013. That's very, very rough estimate, maximum a million people, but that's probably on the high side, then from 2013. To today, it's exploded, and but it's also sort of topped out, basically, the community at large maybe is maximum 10 million people who hold digital currency based on summing up all the wallets and so on online, it's not, it's not 100 million, it's maybe 10 million. And most of those folks are sort of, you know, dilettantes have bought 50 bucks or 100 bucks worth of it, they're just kind of holding on to just checking it out. So we need something transformative to get to the next one or two orders of magnitude to get to 100 million and then a billion users. So what changes once you have a million people who have earned Bitcoin by just you know, replying to a message or filling out a survey. So the first thing is, they have gotten Bitcoin on route to doing something else of utility. And that itself will increase the valuation of Bitcoin, because right now, the valuation of Bitcoin and other digital currencies, is primarily based on its speculation value, and it store value value, rather than its use value. And those are interrelated. Insofar as Bitcoin is digital gold, the only thing that you require of it is that you can purchase it, you can hold the private keys, and then later at some point in the future, you can exchange it for, you know, either Fiat, and then food or then you know, food directly, right. And that's actually the application that's being it's being used for in places like Venezuela, where the currency is in crisis, right.

Unknown Speaker  8:08  
So the general goal applications one and then the second is speculation about, you know, in the future digital currency will take over the world, it will be used for all types of things. And, you know, that's actually gotten the entire industry very far, in the sense that if you sum up cryptocurrency market cap today, that's $20 billion. If you add Bitcoin and aetherium, and all the other guys get their $20 billion, coming up from nothing in 2009. If you thought of that, as a startup sector, that'd be one of the most successful startup sectors out there. Only, like Uber or Airbnb are comparable in terms of their startup vintages. It's bigger than, you know, maybe cloud storage, Dropbox is like 10 billion, or they're about to maybe add in Google Drive, but it's comparable to cloud storage, which is massive, right? So where is already is actually very, very impressive. But they're still probably two orders of magnitude left to go for this digital currency thing, maybe more, because the use cases still haven't come out there. Now we'll return to your point that's kind of setting the frame. Let's say you do have a million people and they have now obtained Bitcoin for answering a message. So a critical aspect of what we're doing is that it's not just useful to take the Bitcoin and go and sell it on an exchange and get dollars back, you can then reuse the Bitcoin within the system to go and buy somebody else's time. And that might seem like a small thing, but it's actually a big thing, because what that means is that 21 becomes a Bitcoin sink, in the sense that folks put Bitcoin in the system, and then they earn between the system and they keep the Bitcoin system rather than selling it for dollars. And what that does is it actually shifts the price of bitcoin up, because a Bitcoin sync means there's constant demand on another way of thinking about this is if you take a small country like Estonia, that had about 1.2 million people and we're having And Estonia up until about 2011 used its own currency called the croon. And what that showed is that a small country of about one 1 million odd people could actually have its own currency in which the butcher, the baker, the candlestick maker all paid each other in croon. Okay. And what's interesting about this is all these folks were geographically located in the same spot. They have balances or had balances and croon have on the order of $10,000 per person or more, because, you know, they worked and had a store balance. And they had a diversified set of professions. You know, they were butchers and bakers, and candlestick makers and what have you. Now, the Bitcoin community, even though it's about five to 10 times larger and more generally, the digital currency community, even though it's about five to 10, x larger, it has limitations that that Estonian community does not. It is spread out worldwide, rather than concentrated in one place. The balances that people have on hand are not $10,000 worth per person, but they're, you know, basically a few bucks, maybe 100 bucks. And the diversity of skills is not really there, you're talking mainly technology people, software engineers, you know, venture capitalists, folks like that. You don't have a lot of, you know, seamstresses or, you know, bakers, or what have you in the mix, right. And so as such, to actually have a use case, which knits this disparate community together, you need to start thinking about products that can be sent back and forth along the edges, which are uniquely useful in the context of digital currency. And so I'd argue that's not going to be a cup of coffee, because if you've got somebody in Japan and somebody in Brazil, who are both Bitcoin holders, a cup of coffee is a physical good, and it's hard to send between them. However, what both of these people have, and often value is each other's time. If one is a software developer, and one's a venture capitalist, or one is an engineer, and others, a recruiter, and so on, and so forth. The entire technology based like information economy, is really about the value of other people's time. And so now you can imagine a million person community, even if they're mostly technologists, and engineers, and so on having many different reasons why they might want to buy somebody else's time. For example, you want to by the time of 1000, Facebook users for beta testing your app, right, or 1000 product users for giving you an early review of the app before before it launches, or you want to have you know, 100 VCs respond yes, no to your message as to whether or not you'd get funding, or 1000 Stanford students, and they say yes, notice whether you get recruited, you can recruit them, right. And so these are things where you're buying people's time, but you're using digital currency to do it, you're buying a digital product, namely time with a digital currency. But it's a significant value because human time has value. And yet it fits this entire model where you've got a pointillistic distributed community with small balances. This is now a product it's actually intrinsic and inherent native to that world.

Unknown Speaker  12:54  
Software Engineers know that saving time means saving money. Save time on your accounting solution. use fresh books, cloud accounting software. Fresh books makes easy accounting software with a friendly UI that transforms how entrepreneurs and small business owners deal with a day to day paperwork. Get ready for the simplest way to be more productive and organized, and most importantly, get paid quickly. freshbooks is not only easy to use, it's also packed full of powerful features. From the visually appealing dashboard, you can see outstanding revenue spending reports, a notification center, and action items at a glance, create and send invoices in less than 30 seconds. Set up online payments with just a couple clicks. Your clients can pay by credit card straight from their invoice. And if you send an invoice you can see when the client has received and opened that invoice. freshbooks is also known for award winning customer service and a real live person usually answers the phone in three rings or less. freshbooks is offering a 30 day unrestricted free trial to software engineering daily listeners to claim it Just go to freshbooks.com slash s Ed and inter software engineering daily in the How did you hear about us section. Again, that's fresh books.com slash s e. d. Thanks to fresh books for being a sponsor of software engineering daily.

Unknown Speaker  14:34  
It makes sense to start with the type of communication for example, a software engineer communicating to a VC, hey, I packed together this product I want I want to pay you 30 or $20 so that I can communicate with you. But it's of course easy to move down market you can imagine plenty of smaller payments being facilitated. And what I like about that is that it is Is descriptive, you can get to the once you get to the lower end where it's like, Okay, I have to pay a really popular florist 10 cents to get them to even look at my, my proposition for my wedding. Because they're so popular. This gets us towards a public understanding of what a micro payment is. And that's just so that, to me is like the main burden of people understanding the value of Bitcoin because most people do look at it essentially, as tulips, even software engineers and venture capitalists, they're like, yeah, I own a little bit of Bitcoin, just because I want to understand the space a little bit like, Okay, so what do you understand? Well, I understand it's going up and down in value. But like, they don't get the micro payment thing. So explain what a micro payment is, and why Bitcoin enables it from a fundamental technological perspective.

Unknown Speaker  15:55  
Right. Okay, great question. So, so one thing is, I will say that folks who do you know, when they talk about learning about the space, obviously, you know, they see it goes up and down. For talking about micropayments, there's one other thing that they may may learn, which actually very useful, which is that in Bitcoin possession is 10 tenths of the law, okay, in the sense that if you have private keys, you hold the money in a way that's extremely different from pretty much anything else we're used to. Because if you have a credit card, you don't really have the money. Because, you know, your credit card can be stopped by the bank, it can be stopped by the credit card company, it can be stopped by many other kinds of parties, right? By fraud protection lock when you're overseas. Bitcoin is most similar to cash, but it's cash that no individual government can devalue. Because it is this international entity, essentially, because of blockchain is a ledger that's on all these different machines. And so that is something which I do think it's not, it's not dumb to say you no one is learning about the space by buying and holding a little bit Bitcoin, it's the only thing you learn is one learns is about private key is it's actually a useful and very non obvious lesson. Right? Okay. So then, Second thing, so let's talk about micro payments, what is a micro payment? Why is why does Bitcoin make that feasible? So, um, you know, there's different people who have different thresholds for what micro payments are. And you could, you could have it be as high as $1. But really, people usually talk about it in the sense or even fractions of a cent on what Bitcoin allows through technologies like payment channels, and then something called the lightning network, which is almost like a, like a grid or a web of payment channels in a sense. Bitcoin allows is the ability to do micro payments, by one method is to put down a balance, like a deposit with a, you know, an entity, and then you can transact back and forth and have like a small debit from that every time that you are, you know, purchasing something. And a way that you can generalize that is if you put down a deposit of let's say, you know, $10 worth with a hub than any other micropayment cable, no, that connects to that hub, you can now actually have settlement, you know, back and forth with that, right? So, essentially, you know, what would Bitcoin allows is for a certain class of applications, you can now have a lower threshold for, you know, payments going out. And in theory, that's going to be very powerful, because right now, the advertising supported internet means that there's multiple intermediaries between you know, the content producer, and the customer, you have, at a minimum, for example, in AdSense for web pages, at least two other parties who are Google and the advertiser. And one of the things that leads to is, you know, as people have seen with the recent YouTube for Ah, and the recent AdSense hoopla is that, you know, content owners can have their revenue dropped 20 25%. Due to the bad actions of other content owners, it's not, you know, simply a relationship between you and the person who's surfing your web page. It is something where you're vulnerable to all of these other parties within the network advertising in a sport Internet has has a lot of issues where direct payment would be better. But I should say that while we can get micro payments to work in Bitcoin today, it is something which is like very much in the early stages, right? on it is going to be a while before that, you know, really, really, you know, gets out there. And I don't think that the first application of micro payments and let's say small payments, not exactly micro but small international errors, I don't think the first application will just be to go and rip and replace the add support internet. And the reason being because that is that works for all its faults works. It's at massive scale, there's large incumbents defending it, etc. Instead, what I think the application is going to be is to monetize a Previously on monetizable area that say to take a Greenfield on and turn that into something which is now in Generating, throwing off a lot of cash. And then later, you can kind of go kitty corner and come back into the advertising space. All right, as just sort of a historical analogy, Google did not start by going against Microsoft, in its core businesses of office and so on. Instead, Google went to search, which is totally different. It built a massive multi billion dollar business. And then with the money from that, it funded Google Docs and Google Sheets and Google Slides and so on, right in Gmail, which are all attacks against Microsoft's core businesses. But it took a while it took its sweet time and doing that and build up a strong business first, before trying to attack the incumbent. In the same way, I think it's very interesting to think about businesses which are enabled by digital currency, that are not that are not as easy to do or not as lucrative in the previous model.

Unknown Speaker  20:49  
When I make most of my purchases, these days, I'm going through Visa or MasterCard, or some other sort of intermediary. And they charged me a toll for using their services, or they charged the merchant a toll which ends up charging me as well. And that is to provide a network of insurance that an anti fraud mechanisms that are attacks but are in some sense attacks worth paying, because otherwise there'd be much more fraud. The world in which we have lightning networks and side chains probably is cheaper, because the the trust and verification systems are more decentralized. They're more granular and distributed. As I understand I haven't looked into the space too much. How different would payments Look, I would do want to get into online advertising, perhaps but just if we talk about just payments, and we compare a world in which Bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies have achieved large penetration and large scale adoption, how much different is our every day financial transactions relative to the current model of apple and Visa and MasterCard and the other monoliths?

Unknown Speaker  22:18  
Well, okay, so here's, I think, one sort of good analogy or way that I think about it, at least, you know, if you were growing up in the 80s, or even the early 90s, there was a time in which you could enumerate all of the communications that you initiated in the course of a day, right? You could say, Okay, I made this many phone calls. And, you know, I, like basically reached out to this many people. Now, today, you cannot enumerate the number of electronic communications you make in a day, if you go and open, you know, Chrome Inspector, when you just go to techcrunch.com, right, you're hitting 200 sites for all of these add pixels, and so on, there's so many HTP requests are being made on your behalf, right. And every time that you hit enter, when you chat with somebody, and electronic communication is being an issue, right. So on a daily basis, every IoT device, you have every fitness tracker, every time that you, you know, use Google Maps, and you send your GPS location, and so on and so forth, you're initiating probably thousands, if not 10s of thousands of electronic communications per day, when you know, 20 years ago, you could count them on one hand. And sort of in the same way, I think we're gonna see something similar with payments, once micro payments comes about, right. Because currently, for the most part, you can count how many transactions you initiate on a daily basis, you can go to your bank account, and you can see, oh, you know, use my credit card for this wire, this person is accountable number, right, it's a useful thing for you to be able to go and log that right. Um, once we have, you know, true micro payments, you are going to find yourself giving a high level instruction, like, Oh, go and buy something, you know, to the computer, and then all this auction behavior, all this bidding logic and so on will happen under the hood, in the same way that you give a high level instruction fetch techcrunch.com. And then 200 page requests happen under the hood. And you'll probably put a cap or limit saying, Get this spend no more than five bucks, and then come back to me with it. Right? For example, here's a spreadsheet. Here's the name. So a bunch of people, please get me all their emails, spend no more than five bucks, right? That's like a very simple data analytic thing where you're drawing on some distributed work, right? You're calling some distributed API effectively. And maybe your system goes in to talk to 20 machines and says, okay, what's the lowest price for this? translate this from English into French, right? You know, Photoshop this, this image and make it redder, or whatever, right? Any kind of machine instruction that you can give like this. Your computer can now buy and maybe sell machine resources to other machines around the world. And I think that's what happens once payments become truly electronic. They become like communications

Unknown Speaker  24:58  
for people who are listening to this This and they still don't understand the connection between the blockchain distributed ledger technology, and how that enables smaller amounts of money to be transacted upon. How would you explain that?

Unknown Speaker  25:15  
A good question. I would say, the fundamental thing about the blockchain is that it is a conceptual programmatic unification of many different kinds of payment methods. So let me again, explain by analogy with the internet right. Prior to the internet, you had physical mail, and you had television, and you had to lesney. Right. So you had the US Postal Service, physical mail, and you had television, NBC, and you had telephony, which is at&t. And then after the internet, everything moved into packet switched information. And with packets, which information you could have Gmail, and you could have YouTube, and you could have Skype. Or you could have something like Google Hangouts, which kind of combines all of them, right, you have an email, and then you can have a call and a video chat at the same time. And so these previously disparate communication methodologies, through the mechanism of packet switching, were just turned into really the same thing, right? I'm sending this information to this other person. And I need no pre authorization from anybody, any computer can send and receive packets to any other computer, right? There's no license from at&t required. There's nothing required other than an internet connection. And that's basically what digital currency and the blockchain allow. any single device that can connect to the internet can get a dial tone from the blockchain, you can download the blockchain if you have an internet connection. And you can write to the blockchain, if you have a private key that has some Bitcoin, or digital currency associated with it. That is completely different from how the typical banking system works is simply not the case that if you have a pulse, you have a bank account, right? Like most people in the world are in fact unbanked. In fact, most more people in the world today now have smartphones and make accounts, which is actually not something most people know about.

Unknown Speaker  27:02  
So as such,

Unknown Speaker  27:04  
in the same way that you had to do a deal before with at&t, in order to do communications related transactions, you currently have to do a deal with a bank to do payment related transactions. And that chokehold basically is what prevents many different kinds of transactions from happening, because banks are no more built for that, than at&t is phone lines were built for many, many small packets being sent back and forth, you needed fiber optics, you needed other kinds of pipes, right. So as a rough analogy, like if you tried to send 10 million micro payments back and forth, the bank would ban you for fraud, and you wouldn't be able to do that first. First you would not even built initiate that many payments bank would ban you for fun. Second is, the fees associated with them would be too high, since you're essentially going through the bank, and so on and so forth. Right now, the way that people can get around that, to some extent, is virtualize it, right. So on Google, for example, will record every single page impression you've had, it's like a virtual currency, and then we'll pay out on a, you know, on a, like a time average basis. So for example, After 10,000, pageviews, you get $3, or whatever it is, right. So it's like they're maintaining their own virtual currency within the Google ecosystem on they're not trying to do a bank to bank transaction and settlement every single time into they're building up a credit for you by writing to their database, that's a higher throughput thing than trying to actually do a settlement.

Unknown Speaker  28:28  
However,

Unknown Speaker  28:29  
the there's many issues with that, one of them is that when you do that, um, you promote centralization, in the sense that Google can freeze your funds or PayPal can seize your funds. Anytime you're doing things that are off chain for a long period of time where you don't have custody of it. You you run the risk of them, you know, saying oh, you had 300,000 pageviews, and you've got $400 in your account. But guess what, Google is frozen, and you can't cash it out. Right. And that happens to many, many people many times. There's other issues as well. But you know, another one is that often payouts from Amazon Mechanical Turk or PayPal or Google only happen once every 30 days, right? And so you can't just get the money right away. And so what that means is that if you've got a business that's based on the velocity of money, for example, you need to collect all the money here before you can go and buy some, you know, goods there to then start the next step in your supply chain. If the settlement has to be fast, then you you can't execute the next step. So you're looking puzzled. Let me try and give a concrete No,

Unknown Speaker  29:30  
no, I'm not puzzled. Because you Okay, so what you described with you basically describe transferwise, right, like transferwise in terms of the thing where they set up Okay, you've got we're, we're we're holding Jeff's money in the transferwise account in Australia. And so that if you Jeff, if you need to make 15 microtransactions to Australia, we will make it seamless for you to make all 15 of those. We will bundle those into one so that it doesn't get rejected.

Unknown Speaker  29:58  
Yeah. So trash resident Some company we're investors in transferwise. Tom, it's a great guy. Um, you know, my, my friend and colleague Ben is on the board. So I've nothing bad.

Unknown Speaker  30:06  
Yeah, transfer. So centralizing Well,

Unknown Speaker  30:10  
what I think about transfer. So basically, companies like that are essentially doing the absolute best they can, given the legacy payment rails we have, right. So they are like a virtualized layer, it's as if we did all kinds of hacks and stuff on top of phone lines. But fundamentally, if you can, like replace phone lines, with fiber optics, you can do a different kind of thing. Sure. And here's another analogy, this is the kind of thing that you would not be able to do with the current system. But I think that you will see within five years or so, especially, you know, you might be able to swim theorem today, actually. But the basic idea would be, let's say if a million people around the world, and each of them wagers on 10 cents per day, and put them into a single smart contract. And so they just hit a button to basically wager 10 cents a day. And they're in Nigeria, they're in India, they're in Brazil, they're in Japan, etc. So 10 cents per day at a million people that's like, you know, $100,000 a day. And then this algorithm picks one of them at random and pays them back out. Okay? Now, what's cool about that is digital currency relative to the existing payment system is really good for payments that are very large, very small, very fast, very international, and very automated, or some combination thereof, right. And so what with that particular example has is it has very small fast and international payments in because you're receiving a million payments of 10 cents from a lot of places. And then very fast, automated large international payments out because you're paying out $100,000 to one of people in a bunch of countries, right? So that kind of application would be impossible with the current banking system, because the fees, and the scale would kill you in terms of the inbound and the sheer number of countries you have to support for a fast hundred thousand dollar wire would kill you on the outbound there's no way you see that that would be the case, even if there were 20 companies like transferwise, that were mediating transactions on top of the the core

Unknown Speaker  32:12  
financial technology,

Unknown Speaker  32:14  
something like that, basically be the what it does, it gets you into a box within the current system where you might be able to hack one aspect of it or another, they start acting like five of them, it just starts to become something where the current system can't is not just not really set up for that. Right. So that's an example. It's not exactly an artificial example. But it's something where small, fast international payments in large, fast automated international payments out on like, you know, that's that's just not that easy to do. And especially on that timescale, right. If you want that to happen within the course of a day, international wire takes like three days, right? And you might say, Okay, well, Balaji, that sounds like a, you know, a hypothetical example. Well, so first is I think something like that would be one of the most popular applications on the internet, frankly, because just, you know, that some free money, right? Um, but the second thing is something like that is also a toy application for a new kind of like real time crowdfunding, right? Imagine if you could collect money as quickly as you can collect 7000 upvotes, and then actually spend it on something, right, like the latter aspect, yes, you can collect money on a GoFundMe or Kickstarter or something. But the settlement is not instantaneous. And that means you can't spend it instantaneously. And that means you can't write a program to spend it instantaneously. And that means that there's whole applications that we aren't seeing, because the settlement part is not happening in real time. So so I think that there's very new kinds of things that could happen, if you could have a program that could just immediately start spending the money after you've gotten it. For example, you can crowdfund something. And as you're crowdfunding it, you're seeing the page populate with what you just bought, right? Like the money is being spent by programming something and you're seeing a popular, so. So those are things that will happen once we can get some latency down. And that's going to that's going to be something that I think digital currency will allow.

Unknown Speaker  34:04  
Okay, so speaking of that, the transaction throughput right now is obviously quite low on the Bitcoin network. Yep. Explain why that throughput is low?

Unknown Speaker  34:15  
Well, on the throughput currently, at the absolute maximum, people have coded like seven transactions per second, but that's really an upper bound. It is this you know, very much discussed block size issue, right? Where there is a limit to the block size and the Bitcoin network. And that limits the number of transactions that can happen per day. Now, if you are somebody who cares mostly about the digital gold or store value application, then you don't really care about the block size issue very much because you buy $50,000 worth of Bitcoin once a year, and you sell it, you know, three years later, right? So your transaction volume is extremely low. You don't really care if the fee is one cent or 50 cents on your vision for the system. You know, all you care about is a You know that that, like, you can get it out at some point and that, you know, the private keys work and so on and so forth. Right? So that leads people towards a small c conservative model, where they say, well look, digital gold is enough, we just get to gold, gold as a $2 trillion market cap, boom, let's just go and compete with that. Right. So so that is that is both the reason that that transaction volume is low on and why some people don't think that that's that, that big problem. Conversely, if you want the Bitcoin economy to grow very large, with, you know, actual transactions happening within Bitcoin, you have one of two options. So the first is so called second layer solutions. And these are like lightning and so on. So right now, like, I'm a big fan of the guys who develop lightning, I think that the technology is good payment channels are interesting, all this stuff is interesting. But it is a whole second layer on it is a whole second layer that is as different from Bitcoin in many ways, as on, I don't know, like, like, the OS is from the raw hardware. Right? I mean, it's not exactly the right analogy, but it's basically a huge caching and on a system of intermediary hubs and deposits. Well, yeah, potentially centralizing, you know, these hubs or potentially centralizing, but let's just say it has properties of the current system, you know, it's just, it's just a different system, right? It's like a, it's a whole second system with all that entails. And it's not just the existing system expanded, right. But on their hand, it allows you to maintain the stability of the current system, and then have push all the risk in theory to that second one, right. So if you're a digital gold kind of person, lightning seems like a good solution. You basically push the risk up to the second layer of the high throughput stuff, and you leave the lower layer intact. Fine. Okay. Then there's the there's another solution for this, which is, quote, increased block size. Right? And this is, I would say, probably where most corporations venture funded corporations in Bitcoin are probably where most venture capitalists are. They think the block size should be increased, because basically, you know, the, the, the Bitcoin network should handle lots of traffic. And

Unknown Speaker  37:15  
their arguments in favor of that one of the, you know, one of them is that, um, that the block size does not directly, you know, there's there's a premise that often people put, which is that a small block size means greater decentralization. But if you look at the network, um, there are, you know, and you measure like the Gini coefficient, right, so the Gini coefficient is a measure of, you know, inequality, right. What's interesting is you can call inequality, you can call it centralization. They're not exactly the same thing. But they're actually kind of related. And normally, those are concerns of different political factions. But you can use some of the same measures to measure them. So if you if you measure the Gini Coefficient of, let's say, miners, developers, exchanges, stakeholders, etc. The degree of you know, inequality or centralization, there's the most centralization with minors and the second most developers and the third most with exchanges and the fourth with stakeholders in the Bitcoin community, roughly speaking, you can you can argue that, but I think that that that ordinal ranking would would hold. And so what that what that means is that on the premise that the small block size is causing decentralization is just simply not accurate. I don't think because you have mining centralization already, what the small block size may in theory do is mean that you've got more nodes out there. But nodes are not the bottleneck, they're not the most centralized component right now. So even if, for example, you took the number of nodes just theoretically down from 10,000, to 1000. But you increase the number of miners, you know, of significance from 10 to 100, the overall decentralization of the system would increase as measured by the number of people who have to get into the room to compromise the system. Right. So from a systems perspective, I think that that's an interesting concept, right? Um, that you basically want to think of, Okay, how do I measure the decentralization of a system, I measured the Gini Coefficient of every individual component, and the number of folks you need to get into a room in order to to break that system and trading off where we have an excess in one area for an increase in decentralization, the other might be a good trade off. Right. With that said, then there's a counter argument, which is certainly true that a large block sizes certainly does not necessarily mean that you're going to see more miners or more significant miners. I anyway, so I didn't mean to digress but just No, no,

Unknown Speaker  39:41  
let's digress. I mean, the

Unknown Speaker  39:45  
the whole block size debate, every time I try to look into it, I just go down a rabbit hole and I don't know what the answer is. And it's feels like a very, something that's going to be very hard to know, until we're looking at it retrospectively. What was that the right decision. But we can at least look at the ways that the Bitcoin community is handling the governance. And what does that what does that tell you about the the community? Are you are you content with how the community is handling the this debate? Or do you feel like it's unhealthy and and politically toxic?

Unknown Speaker  40:24  
Yeah. So it's certainly it's something where it's been fairly rancorous within Bitcoin here. Here's a counter argument argument, a counter argument, and then a counter counter argument. Right. So the obvious point, the obvious argument is, you know, wow, there's a lot of rancor and negativity and so on within the two main competing factions within the Bitcoin space right now, the big blockers and small blockers. That's the obvious point. The counter argument is, despite this, and despite this going on for two years, bitcoins at an all time high, we're like, close to right on, and, you know, it's been proclaimed dead many times, and the thing just keeps going, and maybe what all the fighting is doing is just attracting lot of attention to it. And so like, you know, the no publicity is good publicity argument, right? Or, like, or, like, no policies battle the see. Right. And, and in addition, what it has done is basically indicate to people well, this thing is so bulletproof and bomb proof that it's just really hard to politically attack. Like, there's folks who will do, you know, a soft fork and a hard fork and a minor associate software and so on. Like, you know, there's so many different ways, like in this rock, paper, scissors game of checks and balances, that is just gridlock. Right? Yeah. And there's a theory, you know, lots of folks in the US believe that gridlock is actually good gridlock is, sir Oh, well, right. Because it means then the government can't do anything. If you don't want the government to anything, then you're pro gridlock. Right. And there's, there's a thesis on that so respectable, you know, school of thought. So that's the the gridlock is good thesis, where you don't really have that this is a small c conservative who just wants their digital gold, and then you don't care what's happening, you know, who cares? Like if you're, if you're just in a in a time capsule, and like, there's been so many controversies about Bitcoin for the last eight years, it's actually insane. There's the Bitcoin is dead website, and so on. So this would be the counter argument, right? Then the counter to the counter argument is to say, Well, yes, it's true that bitcoins at an all time high, but that's sort of like Steve bomber saying that, you know, hey, Microsoft profits are an all time high, right? And while micro profits are an all time high, the innovation has gone somewhere else. And there's z cash and there's aetherium. And there's all this infighting within Microsoft is all this infighting within Bitcoin? And so yes, we're still coasting on momentum in the past, but we have lost the innovation of the future or we're in danger of losing it. Right. Um, and then, you know, what is needed is like, you know, the right leadership, like the way that Sofia has totally turned around Microsoft actually, like, I mean, he has done and not to digress, but absolutely insane job for a company of that scale. Like he's done a really, really well the

Unknown Speaker  43:10  
way vitalik has led aetherium the entire time.

Unknown Speaker  43:12  
Yeah, exactly. That's right, like batalik has gone. I mean, you have to give vitalik his props, like, you know, he took Ethereum from nothing to where it is today. He took it through the Dow, he took it through very, very, very tough times. He had to lay off lots of people before the theorem crowdfund, he managed to navigate all the legal issues and so on is not yet you know, gone any issues on that score. Steve Jobs of cryptocurrency? Well, I mean, he's good. Like, we'll see where things lined up. Right. Like, you know, the thing is that he's definitely made an impact. Right, you know, he's, but the, the interesting question to me is, where each technology lands from a niche perspective. Um, so if there was big advantages, it's easy to program with, right? It's big disadvantage, I would argue is that it is centralized. And it is something where one person can, as we saw with the Dow, like, basically reverse the immutable system. So for all the digital gold people, Ethereum is a non starter, because it is something where, like, if it gets politically hot enough, and the down like this, there's political heat around the Dow, but that was, I mean, like, in the grand scheme of things, nothing compared to something like the financial crisis. Sure, right. Like the financial crisis was, I don't know, if you measure by newspaper articles or scale of impact 1000 to 10,000 x greater right, and people still look back and like that

Unknown Speaker  44:37  
was handled so poorly, whereas most people with the dour like map. I'm happy with how that went.

Unknown Speaker  44:42  
Yeah, exactly. Right. So so but the issue is that like, it is not so much that the Dow issue was handled. I mean, like I think that given the under the circumstances, like a theorem, or vitalik did what he had to do on one of the issues was had he just let it stand there. dow attacker would have had like, whatever 10% or 14% of aetherium on and or some large stake like 4%, I forget the exact number. And then it would have been very difficult for them to roll out an eventual proof of stake algorithm, because they would have had the Dow attack or, you know, have being able to vote on all this stuff, right? That's probably not the guy, you want to have 4% of a theorem governance, right, or whatever the presenter was on. So he was in a bit of a, like, a hard place there. Um, it was an issue because, you know, they talked about, you know, the immutable code of, you know, the the Dow and and, you know, like, all that type of stuff, right. But the best decision was made at that time, I think, and in retrospect, with that said, What it did was it made it very obvious to any regulator watching or any, you know, large company, or any government agency watching, and they're certainly watching at this point.

Unknown Speaker  45:50  
That, okay,

Unknown Speaker  45:52  
we have kind of a game plan for how we would unwind any transaction on the Ethereum network.

Unknown Speaker  45:57  
And you know, what, that is a feature,

Unknown Speaker  45:58  
like, undo is a feature. The The question is, though, like, how far do you go that and one, one issue with the, you know, code immutability thing is that I'm still I don't know what the answer is on this. But let me throw it out for consideration. Um, with an algorithm like quicksort, you can write it down and have it be done. And then it's like this immortal kind of thing, right? Like it can go and Donald conops book of, you know, like, of algorithms, and it basically doesn't change from 1970. To today, right? Maybe you might have to modify for some like, integer overflow thing where it didn't contemplate such large data sets. But that's basically about it, right. But most business logic is not like that. Most business logic, I mean, Amazon's website, yeah, not just code rot. But also Yeah, so dependencies, just that. But like, any kind of website, or any kind of code of any complexity, as your, you know, listeners know, a lot of the work is in the maintenance and the modification of it in response to users as it grows, you know, you're going to have to change it for all kinds of unanticipated reasons. Humans are just unpredictable businesses change all the time.

Unknown Speaker  47:06  
So that suggests is that

Unknown Speaker  47:09  
the class of code that you actually want to decentralize and make immutable is a limited class. Because if you decentralize it and make it immutable, you cannot edit it anymore. Or at least if you are editing it, you've sort of defeats the point of decentralizing and making it immutable, right. And what you want to decentralize and make immutable is maybe the quicksort type stuff, or maybe just like the raw contract, and then you got to really, really, really, really get it, right. Because if you're constantly updating it in the etherion blockchain, Well, okay, there's a record of you updating it on, I guess it's better than nothing, right? But it's not that much different from having a centralized company that you just trust. If somebody if you trust somebody to keep updating the contract or the code on you on Well, you're trusting them, right. So, so the room for exactly where decentralized code execution gives a 10 x advantage over centralized code execution is not yet obvious to me. I don't know what that application is. I think that,

Unknown Speaker  48:12  
you know,

Unknown Speaker  48:13  
well, we'll see if we're right about this. But I think that what we're doing with the inbox at 21 is going really in some ways two years or three years earlier and saying, okay, we have decentralized currency that now works that's robust. How do we make an application with that? That is 10 x. And that's different from what's come before. And it's been hard to get people paid out, right? So just the payments bit alone has been hard. And I think that in the future, as we get that, and when we get like a million or 10 million people that have digital currency balances, well, then I think some of the smart contract stuff and so on becomes interesting. Um, but, but I think that, at least right now, it's not obvious what you'd want to decentralize from a code execution standpoint. And if you don't know what that is, then it's not obvious what the gain is over just using it for pure payments. So we

Unknown Speaker  49:03  
play out Bitcoin and aetherium towards the future and we assume Bitcoin remains this ossified digital gold. And Ethereum continues to move fast and hard fork whenever they need to does. So the Ethereum people tell me Oh, Ethereum can be aetherium will become a place where smart contracts are formed and Bitcoin is used as a medium of exchange for those smart contracts and some of the Bitcoin people will tell me Oh aetherium will be transacted on the Bitcoin network and I feel like I'm ill equipped to even really understand those statements. Or maybe I'm not even wording them correctly, but give me give me a sense for the synergies of the Ethereum world and the Bitcoin world. Once we're, you know, if you play this forward, five or 10 10 years or however long you need to get to the point where people are actually using these things for utility rather than raw speculation. Hmm.

Unknown Speaker  50:07  
Yeah. So, I mean, you know, if you look at where the gold market is, it's a 2 trillion market cap. And that's like 100 x where Bitcoin is. So the only thing Bitcoin does is it wins digital gold. That's a world historical importance, right? Like, so that's like a very good application and shouldn't shouldn't be shouldn't be dismissed. Not that not that one is dismissing it. And if you're in by its nature, because it's programmable, because it's Turing complete, because it's reversible, right? Look, I'm not trying to beat a dead horse with a doubting, but it set a precedent for how the network would work. Because of that, it may be for example, the the actual second layer, that's a it might be, right, so it might be something where you hold most of your money in Bitcoin. And then you had an exchange like like shape shift, and you transfer some of it into aetherium as like your checking account, like Bitcoin as your bank account, or theorems or checking out that's like one model. Okay. Another model is that we have a bunch of different cryptocurrencies, just like we have different social networks. And then it just not obvious which one wins or you know, but there's, there's a Facebook and there's LinkedIn, there's a Pinterest and Instagram, there's a Twitter and there's this and there's that right. In the same I think there's a you know, there's a Bitcoin that doesn't

Unknown Speaker  51:23  
so balkanize sorry to interrupt. Yeah, sure, those are so balkanized. And like they resist synergies, oftentimes a Facebook certainly resists energies,

Unknown Speaker  51:31  
that's true, I would say, cryptocurrencies have one or two really critical aspects of them, which are first, you can from the very beginning, sell them for Fiat and then bring it back into you know, another cryptocurrency. So there is an exit, export all your data in a way that Facebook or LinkedIn never had. Right? So that's one like with a very unified data format, namely a wire of whatever 100,000 or a million dollars to your bank account, boom, you just export all your aetherium right, or all your Bitcoin. So So one is that the So because of that, I'm very bullish on the ability for value to flow back and forth between cryptocurrencies in a way that it couldn't really between social networks. Right. So so the lock in is less within any individual cryptocurrency? That's number one, I would say. And number two is, you know, I believe in sort of a meta political view, in the sense that the right governance model for cryptocurrency, we don't know yet. And maybe probably the right answer is to just experiment with 100 different kinds of governance, right? There's right so there's proof of work with Bitcoin. And you know, theorem wants to move to proof of stake. And there's, there's some issues, by the way, with proof of stake, which they're well aware of, and you know, they're working on one of those issues is basically that, if you have proof of stake, then you can have a chain, which can just keep getting extended by by the stakeholders, right. And this is the so called stake grinding problem. And what that can lead to is like a Hydra have competing chains. And you can't just distinguish between them by saying, which is the longest chain and validating the hashes. Instead, you have to effectively like asking batalik, or somebody very trusted, which one is the Ethereum chain, and that introduces trust into the system. Whereas the Bitcoin, you can pull the network, you can look for the longest Bitcoin chain, and you can validate all the hashes, going all the way back to t equals zero, it is literally an algorithm that I can write in a few hundred lines of code that I can confirm mathematically without any human involvement based only on the fact that I know the difficulty of doubleshot hashing, right? So the The cool thing about that the proof of work is you literally don't need to trust anybody else, you would not have been able to fake this data structure without an enormous amount of computational power, right. So the, the amount of computation power that's required to get to this point can be computed from it. And you can also see if there's a fake hash or something like that,

Unknown Speaker  53:55  
right, proof of stake isn't like that introduces some trust.

Unknown Speaker  53:58  
Um, there's a third model, which people are now discussing in the context of Bitcoin, which is what I call like, proof of work, change or unpredictable proof of work change. So with proof of work, ultimately, where power goes to is it goes to miners, because, you know, they ultimately are the ones who are approving transactions. I mean, people can argue this point, but that's where the greatest degree of centralization is in Bitcoin right now that is, and the second greatest is developers, but but basically, a miner can approve or disapprove transactions and they have a lot of leverage in the space right? With proof of stake arguably the power goes to stakeholders and the larger stakeholder and and then you trusted larger stakeholder. And then with changing proof of work, the concept there would be something where developers would periodically change the proof of work function in such a way as to resist so called a substation and data centers and so on. And doing that would basically mean that you know, you have one or two things either a you publish the proof of work To schedule in advance, and probably somebody can figure out how to put that into a chip, like, if you publish what the proof of work is going to be from every year from now until 2100. And you put that out there, that is an algorithm, right? And so probably somebody could put that into a sufficiently complex chip, or what you do is every six months, you, you know, pull from a vat of trails, and you say, Oh, this is what the proof of work is going to be. Right? So if you do that, well, now you have truly defeated a civilization because it's unpredictable. But where power now rests is with something that's similar to the federal open markets committee. Because the group of developers that is figuring out what that new proof of work is going to be is sort of similar to the federal market, many figuring out what the interest rates are. And then there's a huge incentive to know what proof of work they're going to pick, because then you could have your chips ready in advance and so on and so forth. Right. So doorwins for leads to centralization by miners door to centralization by stakeholders, door three, centralization by developers. And so I think what the answer is, is basically that centralization is tolerable, so long as there's an exit, and the exit is sell your coins, get cash, start a new coin, as long as there's constant exit. I'm bullish on the cryptocurrency space as a whole.

Unknown Speaker  56:18  
Spring is the season of growth and change. Have you been thinking you'd be happier at a new job? If you're dreaming about a new job and have been waiting for the right time to make a move, go to higher.com slash se daily today, hired makes finding work enjoyable. Hired uses an algorithmic job matching tool in combination with a talent advocate who will walk you through the process of finding a better job. Maybe you want more flexible hours or more money or remote work. Maybe you want to work at Zillow or Squarespace or Postmates, or some of the other top technology companies that are desperately looking for engineers on hired. You and your skills are in high demand. You listen to a software engineering podcast in your spare time. So you're clearly passionate about technology. Check out hired comm slash se daily to get a special offer for software engineering daily listeners, a $600 signing bonus from hired when you find that great job that gives you the respect and the salary that you deserve as a talented engineer. I love hired because it puts you in charge, go to hire.com slash se daily. And thanks to hired for being a continued long running sponsor of software engineering daily. We had we had new MRI on the show recently to discuss how they were using crypto their own in house cryptocurrency Have you looked at New MRI,

Unknown Speaker  57:52  
by the way? Oh, it's a hedge fund hedge fund.

Unknown Speaker  57:54  
They have this interesting thing where they introduced their own cryptocurrency to incentivize long term thinking in the participants in the data science tournaments that they hold for their crowd sourced hedge fund. And the reason I found it interesting was just because maybe I just don't know the space very well. But it was the first time we're actually saw, okay, here's somebody actually building a utility actually was a smart contract, but a a smart contract in a way that makes a lot of sense. It actually is a unique form of utility.

Unknown Speaker  58:29  
So I guess I have a couple questions. So

Unknown Speaker  58:31  
are you seeing are you starting to see smart contracts that actually make sense that are getting deployed?

Unknown Speaker  58:38  
Um, so I know of new MRI? I don't know whether or not they are? I actually I'm not familiar with exactly what they're doing in terms of smart contract. Yeah. If their smart contract is on a coin that they themselves control, I would I mean, that it's not here. It's on aetherium. Right. No, it's on aetherium. It's on a theorem. Okay. Okay. So if it's on aetherium, then maybe it's a good use of smart contracts? I don't know. I don't know. Sure. Sure. Um, I would say that, in general. I, you know, and this is this is certainly not a criticism of aetherium it's not a criticism of the community. I'm bullish on them long term. In general, I have not seen a production smart contract on and by that what I mean is something where there is serious amounts of money flowing through it. The serious amounts of money flowing through the space are basically in three things first, crowdfunding to exchanges, and third, mining. That's where like the 10s of millions of dollars are, there has not really been an application yet that has worked in other areas. We'll see if there

Unknown Speaker  59:41  
is that because they can't think of it or people are afraid to deploy it.

Unknown Speaker  59:45  
I mean, I think it is it's like actually is a lot of these things are very obvious in retrospect, but they're not obvious in in foresight, right. Like, you know, for example, in 1990 Google was not an obvious application, right. Like are like, rather was not certainly not as obvious that or be as profitable as it is right? Facebook was not as not obviously to be as profitable as it is. There's lots and lots of good ideas that sound like good ideas that came up in the 90s that only eventually the prerequisites came into place for them. So I think there's plenty of concepts people are talking about, you know, with respect to smart contracts, that will all eventually work. But that first one that really works, is it's not going to be obvious. I think what that is until you know, it's gotten to 10 hundred million dollars in revenue.

Unknown Speaker  1:00:31  
So but is that because people aren't thinking of them right now? because lots of people working on it?

Unknown Speaker  1:00:37  
Okay. Yeah, they're working. Okay. Yeah, I mean, there's tons of like, I see lots and lots of pitches for them. I would say, though, that basically, in general, you usually don't want to build a business on bleeding edge technology. And the reason for that is it's unstable, right? And, you know, as an analogy, so, for example, you know, my first company that started was a genetics company, doing very well. And with that company at the time, this was 2008, or, you know, or there abouts, there was a choice in the community between, or were mostly attention was the equivalent of smart contracts for the genomics community that time was so called complex diseases, right? That is, what are the junk roots of diabetes, and, you know, obesity, and all these things, which are very multifactorial, and so on. Now, the thing is, the more multifactorial, the more complex it is, the more loose the genetic correlation, because of course, the same person can be both skinny and fat at different points in their life. Hence, it's not a purely genetic thing. There's environmental variables, so which means your signals already reduced, and so on, and so forth. And because it was hard, it was interesting to academics, and that's why they worked on it. And that's where all the energy was, and the focus and so on, right. And so what we decided to do was actually take all the stuff, which had already been nailed, that was already working, at least in what an academic defines is working, which are all the Mendelian diseases, like cystic fibrosis, and Tay Sachs, and so on. And those are things that have been in the textbooks for decades, and that people have known how to test for for years, but no one had bundled them all together, productized it use modern technologies, not bleeding edge, but two years old, three years old, on and then use them actually, in clinical practice to reduce the cost of things, right. And just doing that, we've actually ended up changing clinical practice, literally, like, you know, a month ago, a guideline came out saying expanded carrier screening is now recommended for like all women, right, that was a very, in its own way, a very controversial thing back in 2010 22,009. When we first proposed it, we've literally changed clinical practice of counsel. Right. So um, the way the and the complex is the stuff is still not fully been solved. Right? Like, almost 10 years later. It's not I mean, progress has been made. I'm not saying hasn't been made. But it's, it's still not something I would say you can productize Yeah, right. And so this is similar to, you know, when I, when I started teaching stats at Stanford, there's an older Professor as a friend of mine, and he said, Balaji, any problem that you find interesting is too hard, don't assign to the suits, right? Because if you find it interesting, as somebody who is living and breathing computational statistics all day, it is definitely too hard for somebody who's just learning, right? And the same way, if there's a technology you find interesting, that means there's some uncertainty in it. And that means it's probably too hard to use in production. You really want something which is two years old, three years old, not so old, that you don't get any technological advantage out of it, but not so new, that you're the one who is stubbing your toe on all the infrastructural things, right? Because

Unknown Speaker  1:03:40  
when you're actually as you know, when you're developing software,

Unknown Speaker  1:03:42  
it's about, you know, hey, has somebody on StackOverflow seen this bizarre bug that I've seen, right? And if somebody else's skin, their knee on that and already done that, then then you can go and deploy it right. And so I think like smart contracts are still in that stage, and will be for a little while, I'd say, like sending and receiving Bitcoin, turning it into Fiat, the infrastructure has been built for that now.

Unknown Speaker  1:04:04  
And I think now we'll start to see applications because infrastructures.

Unknown Speaker  1:04:07  
Okay, last question. What are the pieces of Bitcoin infrastructure, whether you're talking about software or hardware that people are not working on that you wish people were on?

Unknown Speaker  1:04:19  
Well, I'd like to see a resolution to this block size issue. I mean, that's an obvious one. Um, I think that well, I, you know, I think that what we're working on would be certainly one thing I'd like to see, which is allowing people to actually earn digital currency for doing things on and if they can earn digital currency of doing things and they're getting it for free. They're more generous with it, they're more likely to experiment with it. And we can add a plugin, for example, very easily so that people can earn not just Bitcoin, but Ethereum and Zee cash and so on, right. So you go to 21. And you can get any digital currency you want simply by filling out some surveys and clicking some buttons, right. So we can have a menu of new digital currency new digital currency of the week that you can just play around. Sure. Right? What's the next thing that you're going to build on it? You know, in addition to the messaging system? Yeah, good question. So, we have a bunch of things coming out in the next couple of weeks. Um, so one is, we are going to make it such that you can forward any email that is an unsolicited commercial email to 21 to 21. co. And we will do is we will send a bounce to that person saying, hey, go to 20 co, Jeff Myerson, and because Jeff is really busy right now, and pay to get in touch with Jeff, right. So this way, you can clean out your inbox, and every week you forward 100 emails there, right. And maybe five of them turn into bounces where they actually want to get in touch with you, and they're willing to pay for your time. Okay, so it's basically saved, right? That's great, right? So save time, make money, very easy to understand instantly, because just for to try and turn into code, very easy to remember. It works in Outlook, it works in Gmail, it works in Hotmail, whatever, Yahoo Mail, all these things, mobile web, all this stuff, no plugins or anything, right. So that's one thing that we're launching, and I can add you all, all software engineering, daily, people will send out a link to the list, so you guys can try that out. Sounds great. Okay, second thing that we're adding is on basically dozens and dozens of new lists. So you've probably seen that you can contact famous individual people like Marc Andreessen, Ben Horowitz, and so on. And you can also contact like lists of VCs and angels and whatnot on the one side, okay, so we're launching now our lists where it's like thousands of Facebook users, or thousands of Bitcoin holders, or thousands of engineers. Wow. Okay, thousands of Stanford students, right? So with one click, you can now contact thousands of people. So if you're launching a new old coin, guess what, you can now contact 1000 Bitcoin holders and pitch them on the alt right? Or if you're recruiting the San Francisco, you can one click contact 1000 San Franciscans and get a yes, no one a decision, right? So you're basically buying an action from people at scale in a way that hasn't really been possible in the internet before. You could certainly run ads before. But this is not an ad, you only pay if you get a reply. Right? So if you show it to them, and they don't do anything, then you don't pay anything. That's great, right? Okay. So what's cool about that, from the buyer side obviously has some value, you're able to script thousands of human beings, right? From the seller side, it has value because we think of each list that you can apply to, for example, apply to the Stanford students list, or apply to the Python developers list, or apply to the Facebook users list. Each list has a price associated with it. So if you apply to the VC list, and you join, on the price will be let's say $50 per reply, because that's a very elite hard to get onto list. If you apply to let's say, the Python engineers list, it might be $5 per apply, right? Or $10 per reply. If you apply to the Facebook user list, it might only be like 10 cents per reply, because there's a billion Facebook users, right? So each of these lists, it's like a micro job, where the Python engineer list might give you 100 emails a year at 10 bucks a reply. So that's like 1000 bucks a year as a micro job. It's not a full job. And it's not a micro task. It's something in between, yeah, you qualify for once you fill out the application, and if you get onto it, you have a steady stream of work. Sure, which you can just complete, you know, from your own convenience. Right. So So that's, that's the second thing we're launching

Unknown Speaker  1:08:23  
on and

Unknown Speaker  1:08:25  
we've got more, but those are, I think, two pretty interesting things. Yeah.

Unknown Speaker  1:08:28  
Okay. Well, Balaji Thanks for coming on software engineering daily. It's been a pleasure.

Unknown Speaker  1:08:31  
Okay, great guys going sign up at Twilio. co Yes.

Unknown Speaker  1:08:36  
Thanks to sim Fano, for sponsoring software engineering daily. Sim Fano is a custom engineering shop, where senior engineers tackle big tech challenges while learning from each other. Check it out at Sim fano.com slash se daily. That's s ymphono.com slash se daily. Thanks again to sim Fano, for being a sponsor of software engineering daily for almost a year now. your continued support allows us to deliver this content to the listeners on a regular basis. Wow.

Transcribed by https://otter.ai
