Unknown Speaker  0:10  
I'd like to welcome Balaji Srinivasan CTO of Coinbase. Who's a great join us today. So Balaji Why don't we kick off? You know, with your crypto origin story, it's almost like a superhero origin story. Sure. I'd love to hear what got you interested in this space? Maybe some of your background before that, and what brought you to Coinbase?

Unknown Speaker  0:33  
Yeah, absolutely. So, um, you know, after the 2008 financial crisis, you know, a lot of things were previously constant became variable, right, like, in the sense of, you know, America's monetary policy, which had been relatively constant for a while, suddenly, you know, there's quantitative easing, there are a lot of things like this. And, you know, in computer science, you call this a leaky abstraction, right? Things were poking through, where you just, you know, you've never seen that before. So I mean, interesting, kind of the the nature of money. And, you know, I, you know, I looked at the chart for the feds m zero, if you guys have seen that Amnon, if you go and Google that, you'll see that monetary policy up till the financial crisis was kind of a line like this in terms of the amount of, you know, m zero out there, and then suddenly just went like vertical like this with a ton of money that was printed, like, total discontinuity of everything previous. And this was said to be, oh, that's just macroeconomic theory, you know, you don't understand anything or whatever. And it's like, you know, maybe maybe there's something that needs to be poked into here. So looked at things, you know, at the time, like gold thought a lot about, like, you know, what is the fundamental unit of money, I actually think this a whole separate kind of topic, I should think you can argue that the true price of something is in J. Au, au, LDS jewels, not je w LS, but jewels in the sense of, you know, the price of an iPhone is like, the energy required to like assemble it out of the constituent elements from the ground, right. And you can talk about, like human civilization progressing, if you reduce the number of jewels to assemble an object, right, like, a house becomes less expensive, in real terms, the amount of energy that goes into, like, assembling it is is less, right. So it's interesting way of kind of thinking about the true cost of something, right, and actually think you could probably base a crypto on that. But these are the kinds of things I was coming at it from like a physics or, you know, CS standpoint, just like writing up my own little, you know, notes to myself, I came across Bitcoin, and you know, saw it in 2011. And it seemed interesting, and then, you know, crash all the way down to two bucks. And then what piqued my interest in 2012 was that came back up, right? In very, very few things in, you know, technology come back up after like, you know, going from $32, to like, $2, or whatever, a very few things, like, come back like that, you know, Friendster didn't come back, right? MySpace didn't come back, you know, things that die like that usually don't, don't untie. And so that really got me, you know, interested. And so by late 2012, I was really into bitcoin. And that began, you know, the start of my crypto journey.

Unknown Speaker  3:03  
And where were you before? And, you know, can you provide some context for sure what, like, primed you to, to recognize this, because you're really early?

Unknown Speaker  3:13  
Yeah. So well, my quick background. So, you know, Stanford vsms, PhD, I did my PhD work in like, computational genomics, syscall reconstruction of genetic circuits. It was like the intersection of few different disciplines. I taught CS and stats at Stanford for a few years. And then I started a genomics company. And, you know, this was we recently sold it for 370 $5 million. so successful. So congratulations. Thanks. Yeah. And, you know, another thread on this alongside the quantitative easing stuff is, while you know, founding the company and operating the company, I realized, you know, how regulated you know, the economy was right, you know, when, when you're in academia, the worst thing that, you know, the state can do is not renew your grant, oh, they didn't give me more money. Right, you know, so NSF, NIH, you know, etc, they just don't renew your grant. Right? Whereas, when you're operating in a regulated industry, if you are not compliant, you can be shut down, it can be just done, terminated, etc, right. And that was just not something that I really fully understood till actually doing that. And, and moreover, you know, what started to happen in technology was you had, you know, Airbnb, and, you know, Lyft and Uber and these other companies that were arising that showed, hey, maybe regulations are written 100 years ago, aren't necessarily appropriate for this time in place, right? Maybe they were relevant or, you know, appropriate or the right, you know, technology, you know, in the sense of a regulated marketplace, you know, regulations of technology in the 40s or the 50s. But today we've got, you know, everyone's got a mobile phone, information provisions local, maybe you can revisit that right. So that was another thread where, you know, crypto kind of, you know, challenges certain, you know, old concepts of how like a, you know, a currency and marketplace, etc, should be regulated. So there's another big thread that led into this

Unknown Speaker  4:58  
and so How did this all bring you to Coinbase?

Unknown Speaker  5:01  
Ah, so shafter you know, after 2012, I started to get into, you know, Bitcoin at the time, not crypto, but in a big way on, I became an angel investor, I taught a MOOC course with like 250,000 students actually that had a lot of Bitcoin in it, I think on the first like MOOCs or college courses that had had Bitcoin. And, you know, I helped set up a Bitcoin mining company that was initially very successful it was when the first data center mining companies, and also join Andreessen Horowitz as a general partner and did a lot of our stuff, early stuff in in crypto and biotech actually, alongside Chris Dixon and Vijay Pandey and whatnot, then in you know, 2014, bitcoin price crashed, and the mining company that had been very successful became very not successful. And so, you know, then, you know, had big problems. And because I had like, helped set it up at the beginning, I had like, some feeling of responsibility or whatever towards it. So, net is I took it over in mid 2015. Turn that company around very, very challenging situation, I wrote about it called the turnaround, if you Google my name, the turnaround, Balaji, whatever. And, you know, turn that to earn calm, and got around to 10 million gmv run rate, and, you know, actually profitability and sold out to Coinbase, last year in April, and joined the CTO. So it's almost exactly a year ago.

Unknown Speaker  6:21  
Great. And so, why don't we pivot to talking a little bit about Coinbase? Sure. And, you know, kind of the story of Coinbase. So far, you know, where do you think Coinbase is today? Yep. And what the future of Coinbase really holds?

Unknown Speaker  6:36  
Yeah. So So, you know, there have been,

Unknown Speaker  6:40  
there's various hybrids, when you've got to look at something as new as crypto coming out. There's various hybrids that have been tried, for example, people have tried private blockchain, right? That's a hybrid between the Fiat system, the blockchain system that has not worked. But the big hybrid that has worked is, you know, buy bitcoin with fiat currency, right? Or buy crypto with fiat currency. That's a hybrid where it's like the scale and profitability of it is probably well in excess of what anybody envisioned. I think Satoshi probably originally envisioned, you know, the Bitcoin economy kind of, like bootstrapping itself over here, and didn't think about the exchanges and the exchange rate as being like, so important. But the exchanges let you do is they let you sort of, you know, dualboot, they'll be like a dual citizen of like, the economy and the crypto economy, you don't have to go all in, you know, with 100% of your assets in the crypto economy to start, you can take point 1% or what have you. And so you've turned this binary switch into this 20 or 30 year continuous, you know, process where, you know, crypto just accelerates like this. But at every point in the middle, you're pricing, the uncertainty of it actually getting to 1.0. Aquarius does sort of insert facilitates that. It's like the first, you know, Fiat crypto interface between fiat currency and cryptocurrency. And you can imagine if that was very profitable, there's other Fiat crypto interfaces that could also be profitable, for example, theater identity and crypto identity, right? Or possibly, eventually, Fiat equities and crypto equities and so on. Right. And you know, the exact right model has to has to be set up. It's, it's not just enough to say, take the Fiat and take the crypto and combine them. But I think that's one of the things that can be thinks a lot about.

Unknown Speaker  8:19  
And Coinbase has been adding new products and new functionality recently. Can you maybe give an overview of the various products and services that Coinbase provides today? And perhaps you know, what's most exciting to you in terms of the evolution of those products? Sure.

Unknown Speaker  8:37  
So we actually have like a mural, put out a blog post or something like this, but our thinking on this. So this term, I've been using a fair bit like the crypto economy right? Up to this point, crypto economics, when people have talked about it, they talked about it in the context of like a blockchains intrinsic incentive structures and the game theory of that, and so on. Right. Take a slightly different vantage point, what do we think of and then I'll define like Coinbase and stuff, we think about it in terms of Coinbase being the trusted, safe and legal center of the crypto economy. And this is sort of a specialization and focusing of, you know, a more open financial system and why is that, like a an open financial system includes a lot of stuff that Coinbase can't participate in, by just nature of being, you know, a regulated entity, right? You know, there's a lot of, you know, like Silk Road Type marketplace or whatever, which we want to keep, you know, well away from, right, there's, you know, there's wash trading, there's stuff like that out there, which we want to keep at a distance we want to be is the trusted, safe and legal center of the crypto economy? And what does that mean going through those bits, right? trusted, meaning that the counterparties on Coinbase won't won't Screw you, right? They are, you know, good for the money when you when you execute a trade, right? They are well capitalized and they are legitimate actors. Safe, meaning that when you put funds on Coinbase, they're not going to get hacked, right. You can actually, you know, keep them on there and keep them on there with confidence for a long time. A period of time and legal meaning that, you know, there's a different measure of safety, you know, it's not going to be like, you know, BTC e or something like that which, you know, which gets shut down, but by the government, we put a lot of effort into regulatory compliance and so on. And the combination of trusted, safe and legal means you can now play long term games with long term actors on Coinbase. Right? Because, you know, these are folks who, you know, you know, trust is actually valuable, it reduces transaction costs, safety is valuable, you can keep your your funds or legalities valuable, you can ensure that your funds are there for a while. So that's the bit of the crypto economy a very large and we think profitable part of the crypto economy, the trusted, safe and legal portion. And what do we mean by the crypto economy? Let me be more specific. Visualize the crypto economy as a graph, much like a social network, except the edges have money on them. Okay. And so what are the nodes in this graph? They are individuals, of course, but they're also protocols, miners, crypto hedge funds, acid issuers, etc. Right? And, you know, what, what are the edges, right? So the edges are crypto economic verbs, right? actions, for example, buy, sell, send receive, those are the basic Coinbase crypto economic verbs, but also now Earn Spend store and use right with Coinbase. Earn, you can earn crypto with Coinbase commerce, you can spend it with Coinbase custody, you can store it with Coinbase wallet, you can use it right. And then there's new crypto economic verbs, which we are, you know, potentially looking at over time, like, you know, lend and borrow long and short like prediction markets or derivatives, you know, predict or, or vote or steak, right? These are things which are new cryptoeconomic actions. And if you think about it, these these verbs are the use cases, right? So it says, what are the use cases for crypto? Well, the use cases are, you know, borrow and lend long and short and you start combining these together and you can like, borrow some crypto to buy some crypto to, you know, bet in a prediction market or what have you, right, start like concatenating. and combine these use cases to get more and more sophisticated financial instruments. And the way we think about it is we are facilitating the trusted, safe and legal portion, the crypt economy. So we are allowing people, these nouns, these actors to engage in these verbs, these actions. And that's like a pretty general way of thinking about all cohesive products, enabling the trusted Technical Center of the crypto economy.

Unknown Speaker  12:15  
So that's really interesting. I want to I want to go a little bit jumper there into some of the verbs. Yep. Right. I think you know, buy sell, send receive, that's very intuitive. Everyone can understand that pretty easily. Yep. Right. But recently Coinbase announced support for staking Yep, out of your custody product. Right. And actually, earlier today, Kyle was giving a presentation and he talked about how staking enables a risk free yield, effectively, crypto native risk for yield denominated in the asset that you're that you're staking, right. And so with all of these new verbs that are becoming available, like staking or actually borrowing, do you think what do you think is the most exciting like, what's the most near term opportunity that you think people really want to use? versus You know, there's a lot of things in the blockchain space that are really interesting in theory, but we're just not there yet.

Unknown Speaker  13:14  
Yep. Yep. That's right. So you know, we have this internal document, that that I've written up other folks who contribute, which we call proven and unproven, right? And so think about the blockchain spaces. In the same sentence, people can mention some things which are at one or 10, or even 100 billion dollar scale with things that have basically like zero daily volume, right? Like, you know, let's say drew lives in collectibles, right. crypto derivatives are at billions of dollars in notional volume traded per day on crypto collectibles are at like sub 1 million septum sub 100,000, depending on how you look at it, right? And so there's like, seven, six or seven orders of magnitude or more difference in some of these things. And so it's actually useful, because of the way public blockchains work, you can actually quantify some of this stuff to actually say, okay, what's working, what's not working? What's proven unproven, right. And so that's one axis that you can use to kind of rank these things. I do want to quibble with your kind of upstream statement, maybe you know, our host, Kyle. So I don't think there's a thing, any such thing as a risk free yield, right, I understand one can speak colloquially about it. Because the thing is that when you buy an asset that is yielding, you know, staking returns, well, of course, there's, you know, possibly possibly of getting slashed, and of course, issues like that. But then even more fundamentally, your returns are denominated in that cryptocurrency, right? So you, you know, you, you buy that crypto, and then you get staking returns in that crypto. And so when you're taking his price risk, right, so if that price goes down, then you might get more of something, but it's if it's down 90%, you've got 5% more, you're still net negative. So you know, now the counter argument to that is well, that's just like mining, you know, in the sense of, you know, mining is sort of a way of going even longer on Bitcoin, why not just buy it right? So I'm not arguing that seeking is bad or anything just I wouldn't call it risk free. Yeah, it depends on how you denominator how you denominator. That's right. That's right. And then, you know, Now with that said, you know, what is what's the most exciting? I mean, you know, one thing that like, like I tweeted this a while back, you know, I think it's, it's, you know, it's a winter for price but the summer for innovation, right, maybe maybe it's starting to thaw in terms of price we'll see right? on, it's hard for me to pick the most exciting because, like, you know, for example, all the privacy coin stuff is working, right, snark starts bullet proofs, you know, the sapling deployment for z cash, you know, grin coming out there, etc. You know, the defy stuff is working, right, like, you know, you have this, this graph of eath locked in defi. If you Google Mike McDonald's thing, and you know, you've got lending you've got rid of, you've got prediction markets, you've got compound with interest, all this stuff, you can use and you know, Coinbase, wallet, also, all these chains, which were kind of in development for a long time are all starting to launch, you know, this year, right, and you've got a bunch of these launches coming up. You've got a you know, like, like, basically, the the whole derivatives sectors is quite large. And you're just you're starting to see a lot of these things working at the same time. So, so hard for me to pick something that's most exciting. We just want to be a platform where you can do all of those things, and then combine them and concatenate them and compose them as you see fit.

Unknown Speaker  16:14  
Yeah, I think the the composability is, is really interesting. And I want to stay on this. This heuristic of this framework of having, you know, these nodes and edges and the edges are verbs. Yep. Right. And so as we think about an open financial system, yep. Or a decentralized financial system? What are some of the verbs that exist in the traditional centralized system that don't yet exist in the open financial system that you think will eventually transition over? Because it's better this way?

Unknown Speaker  16:47  
Well, so that's a great question. Actually, this gets me to sort of a second definition of the crypto economy, right. So the first definition is like a structural definition of a graph of nodes and edges, right? The second definition is to define the crypto economy in contrast to the Fiat economy, right? So if, you know, if you visualize like a just a Gaussian a bell curve, right? a theater, the theater economy is in the middle class person, you know, buying a cup of coffee, in the first world with a credit card. crypto does not help with that problem, right? Buying a cup of coffee with crypto is like the GNU Linux on the desktop, it's something which, you know, will like maybe might have been eventually work, right, in the sense of, you know, Android, Android, actually, you know, 20 years later became a desktop Linux of a sort. Right. But I don't think it's going to work in the terms that people think so. So the the Fiat economy, you know, actually credit cards, wire transfers actually work reasonably well for for this kind of middle class subset of folks with the crypto economy is is the other extremes, it's a compliment, right? So on one end, it is the, you know, power users of money, the developers, the investors, the kind of folks who need to move a million dollars around the world in less than a minute to participate in an Ico who want to write a smart contract, who want to automate, you know, the, you know, the sending and receiving of huge amounts of money, right, FinTech developers, folks like that, right. And so the the power users of money, they're into crypto, the crypto economy, for the tenex opportunity for for the upside, right. And then on the other side, you've got, you know, the marginalized, you know, the unbanked, the deep platformed. Even the devices, right, like, like non human things, and what's in common among these folks is all they want is just a bank account, right? They just want to claw on hold on to something, you know, by their fingernails, right. And, you know, that actually also maps to devices where, you know, devices just want to make account, like just getting one is a huge step up from them from from nothing. And so, so these, you know, people, these entities, you know, folks in Venezuela, and so on, they're into crypto out of necessity, right? And so you've got this one group, the, you know, like the power users and developers are into for the opportunity, these others are into it for the necessity, then you have, you know, actors like, like binance, which are both at the same time, right? You know, they're both the power user money, and they're basically unbanked, and kind of like on the run from, you know, governments or, you know, whatever, right. So, you know, they kind of exist in this superposition of states. You know, much respect to what they built and, you know, and so on. So, that that's another way of thinking about the crypto economy. It's the extremes as a compliment to the Fiat economy. So this leads us to then your original question, which is, what is the crypto economy uniquely enabled? The Fiat economy does not? Well, I think everything that you know, the developer or the power user of money, wants to do is where the thing starts to build out, right? So you know, moving gigantic flows of money. For example, automating m&a, right? If you've ever done m&a, it's actually a huge pain, right? Like all this wire transfer information, you need to collect all these people you need to pay out you have to calculate the waterfall. It's in a spreadsheet, blah, blah, blah, and 15 different preference stacks, all that stuff. Boom, you could just once you can automate that well Once you automate something, you can do much more of it. Right? You could you imagine programmatically buying and selling companies, right? On other kinds of things which are in the near term. You can start in this already happening, start composing, defy instruments to get sophisticated kinds of contracts. And you could of course, do this in the Fiat world. But it'd be you know, this legal ease combined with that legally is compliant that one, and that kind of broke down with like mortgage securitization, and so on people like lose the plot, they lose the paper trail, it's not as precise it's not computational, right? Um, but once a computer is handling all of those execution details, yeah, your code might be wrong. But in theory, you can now compose and get some very complex functionality. And we've seen that of course, with sass, right, like, you know, the entire SAS world, the API world, your modern website has 15 different API's are using stripe, they're using Twilio, they're using all this stuff, right? So composability, I think, is a very big new thing in crypto that really wasn't there won't be there to the same extent in Fiat. And, you know, the third are things that are due to the like, hundred billion dollar reduction in upfront costs. What I mean by that, um, you know, 10 years ago is considered insane to say, you know, you're starting a new currency, right? So someone say, like, you know, VC would look at you, like, you've got four eyes and be like, but you're gonna go to the IMF and the World Bank, right? You're going to tell them I'm going to, you know, x bt, it's this new thing, and it's deflationary. Right? And they're just like Bashi with their copy of econ 101. And be like, No, you know, Krugman has said, It is impossible. Like, and, and so, you know, that was just never happened, right?

Unknown Speaker  21:31  
And so instead, you know, Satoshi figured out a different method on the internet. And now literally, you know, five years later, a college dropout created an international digital currency, right? So the threshold went from like, basically, you know, winning an election or war or revolution down to somebody from their dorm room could create an international currency, right? That's like 100 billion, or like a trillion dollar drop in, like the cost of innovation in currencies, macroeconomics, etc, right. And it's not just for currencies. This is also true for, for example, with like, Vail is doing, like prediction markets, right, you know, opening now they're outside the US, you know, you can't access them from the US, but, like, being able to open a, you know, derivative or prediction market on anything, I think, has implications that people don't even think of, right. And, you know, for example, right now, you know, traditional derivatives, you know, are all about betting on the price of something, you know, typically right? Well, you know, what's interesting is the internet is highly quantifiable, right? And so you have, you know, for example, graphs of people's Twitter followers or, or graphs of, you know, the the compete, you know, compete calm, like the relative traffic of different sites, or at at the number of downloads or something. And so what's interesting is with prediction markets, in theory, if you are good at forecasting the direction of the internet, you can monetize any internet trend. If you can find a Counterparty, right, let's say there's some open source project that's taking off, right? If people don't think it's going to take off and you do, you can say, Well, this is going to have 10,000 GitHub stars a year from now. And your Counterparty takes the other side of that argument, boom, you just found a way to like monetize the popularity of open source, if you can find a skeptic, right? on if you've got, you know, like a website where you weren't able to, like buy it stock, but you do think it's going to go up? and somebody's skeptical about it. Oh, you know, you know, this Facebook thing is just a fad is just a bubble never going to take off, right? Well, you could say, well, I think it's going to be the, you know, in the top 10 on the Alexa rankings, you know, alexa.com or whatever, in next, you know, five years. And that's a very digital, you know, quantifiable thing you're using alexa.com, effectively as like the Oracle. And I think it's alexa.com. So Amazon's Alexa thing, not, not the not the speaker, but their other confusingly named service. So you know, the Alexa rankings, right? Like, you can say, look, I bet it's gonna be in the top 10 over here. And your Counterparty says no, I don't think so. It's gonna crash and burn, whatever. And so this is super interesting, where it allows anybody who's good at forecasting the future, so long as they can find a Counterparty to be able to monetize that ability. Right. So prediction, markets, derivatives and everything. And and what is innovation, they're the innovation there is being able to open up a prediction market without any permission required from anybody right now. Of course, it's on the internet. And there may be only like, I don't know, five out of 100 countries that consider it legal. But that's five. Right. You know, we're starting somewhere, right? Zero. Yeah, exactly. So that's a type of thing, which I think the crypto economy enables at the Fiat economy has not,

Unknown Speaker  24:28  
I think, one of the strengths of blockchain technology and I think this is actually like, the key fundamental thing is that it brings markets to new frontiers. Yep. It. I think, you know, we were talking about this in the opening remarks, right. And I shared some fundamental beliefs that we have multi coin, which is one, we think that technology innovation drives humanity forward, too. We think that markets are the best system that we have come up with, to drive technology, innovation. and incentivize technology innovation. And then three, why we're interested in blockchain is because we think that permissionless markets are larger and more liquid and therefore more effective. Yep. Right. And so what are some of the other like, I think prediction markets are really interesting, because it's kind of like this abstract layer, where you can make a market on literally anything you want. Yep. But are there other types of markets that are other industries that you think markets can be brought to? Yeah, to really help open them up and help increase the efficiency of innovation there?

Unknown Speaker  25:32  
Yeah. So like, actually, literally, six years ago, I republished a bunch of this stuff. You know, so one of one of the things I've thought about for a long time is that crypto turns every Soviet bread line into an American supermarket. Okay. So that is to say, replacing every cue with a market or a priority queue. Okay. And there's lots and lots of cues and wait lists on the internet, for example, you know, your iTunes download queue, right? On your computer, should you want that file faster, could pay to jump to the front of the queue, right. And what that does is it gives more money for Apple, which eventually lets them have more bandwidth, and more download bandwidth and so on, right. And in general, any resource that is allocated by a waitlist, or a queue, for example, your email inbox, right? These are sorted in chronological order, what if they were sorted in the order of how much people pay right? On or, you know, like, like packet prioritization, we talked about, like voice and, you know, quality of service guarantees, you can imagine, you know, these things actually starting to bid with each other, right. And eventually, and this is, like 10, or 20 years out, you know, you've got self driving cars on the highway, and they could like bid with each other to kind of pass and paid pay to pass, right? That's sort bring it to the physical world, right. So that's, you know, one of many examples, anything that can be priced, or monetized or traded will be on and, you know, one of the things that is kind of related to this, so one is the queues and so on. The second is actually all of these two sided marketplaces that exist on the internet right now. Right? So these are, you know, like, like, Uber like Airbnb, right? Like eBay, you know, open tables, smaller one, but you know, right, all these two sided marketplaces could be eventually you could rip the top off of them and turn it into an order book. Right. And a tradable order book, which is like, this is the price, you know, here's the buyers of rides, and here's the sellers of rides. And you know, you introduce into not just the the, you know, the rider and the driver, you have the speculator in this market, who is betting on like, what the demand curves and so on are going to be like, right, and you know, what, when we started thinking about that is on, you know, if you look at like a p2p lending thing, like Lending Club, well, there is, you know, something like, you know, bitfenix has this thing, a funding book, right, which is a generalization of a typical price order book, on a typical price order book, where you've got is you've got buyer orders on the side, and then sellers on this, right, and it makes, you know, like a V like that. And the x axis is, is price and the y axis is quantity at that price, right? Okay, so bitfenix has this thing's funding book where the x axis is actually the interest rate. And so the buy orders are, I want to borrow this amount of money at this interest rate, like 13 bucks or whatever, $1,000. And then the other folks who want to sell are the lenders, I want to lend out, you know, $15,000, at, you know, 14 bits, right? And then where are the you know, the demand for the for the loan, the guy who'll pay the highest price for loan, and where the supply for the loan, the guy who will lend it out at the lowest price where they meet, that's a market. And then of course, it's not just like a one time buy sell transaction, there still was logistics of how those payments occur, the duration of the loan, all those characteristics. But now what you start to do is turn other kinds of marketplaces besides just, you know, like the crypto buy sell into order books, right. And so it's like, you rip the top off the Lending Club. And you know, you take the, you know, nice UX, and all that stuff, and just turned it into an order book, right. And so I think that's a big other kind of thing that will happen. Lots of these two sided marketplaces, will get order books, you know, on them, they'll be considered like a power user way to interact the system and make money on the system.

Unknown Speaker  29:09  
So I like this phrasing of it, you know, you take the top off of the marketplace, removing the rent seeking middleman.

Unknown Speaker  29:14  
Yeah. Or even just the UX, right? Because Because one of the things is like, when I say take the top off of it, like we take sort of for granted in crypto is that there's a large group of people who have now been trained in looking at an interface like Coinbase Pro, right? And, you know, QuickBooks Pro is it's, I think it's a good interface, but it's like, it's an interface for power users, you have to understand like, candlestick charts, and, you know, like, this thing is flashing at you, which is like, all the trades are here. What's a limit order and a stop order, you know, a market order, you know, like, like this kind of complicated, right? In yet. Millions of people have learned how to do that, right. Like we have trained millions of people in this thing. And, you know, like, it's probably already crossed the number of people who've used a Bloomberg terminal right? But by a lot, right? So like, just like, for example, the number of publishers was actually a relatively small set of people in, let's say, 1990. And now everybody worldwide has a publisher, everybody worldwide is a journalist, everybody worldwide, you know, can publish an audience. We are training millions and millions and millions of people in these tools of Finance. And that's what I mean by rip the top off is, you know, these folks are now almost like command line users of money, right? They're like, boom, the order book, I see the matrix, right? I understand the price and quantities, right? And they understand it's not just buying an orange for $1 and 59. cents, one, Orange is 159, you pay a marketer, you want to buy 10 million oranges, will you start actually getting into the order book, right, like Howard price discovered. So once enough, people are trained in that way, then you can have this sort of programmatic interface where they're not seeing all the UX, niceness and so on of a, let's say, Lending Club, they're actually seeing the order book itself. And then

Unknown Speaker  30:49  
how do you introduce the simplicity back? And it's necessary for the average user? Because I think this is a it's a really interesting process it's going to play out is I agree with you completely, that we're going to see more markets and proliferation of markets in places where they haven't existed before. Yep. Right. But then at the end of day, it needs to be something that, you know, like my mom can use. Absolutely right, in order to get mass adoption. And so how do you see the incentives working? You know, given that these protocols don't have marketing budgets, they don't have CEOs, they don't have KPIs that they're trying to hit, right? Like, how do you see the incentive system to go and then bring the simplicity back end?

Unknown Speaker  31:26  
So okay, so two things? Well, let me let me quibble one of your points, which is they don't have CEOs and marketing budgets, many of them actually do. Right. And because they're kind of, like, at the initial spot on route to being fully decentralized. And what's interesting is actually, it's a good mental exercise to say, okay, who would I get, like a marketing spend for front for this for this coin? on and then you can kind of see, like, degree of decentralization based on that, right. And, you know, the, the thinking is that, you know, the smart ones want to actually use their marketing budget, to decentralize the coin, right, like, get a bunch of developers get a bunch of miners get a bunch of users and then start, you know, reducing, you know, their own kind of roll on. But But your point about, like, UX and simplicity of us. Two thoughts on that. So in the long term, I do think that, you know, just like the internet enabled lots and lots of people to have sophisticated power user access things, right. StackOverflow and GitHub, you know, like the terminal on the command line. And so it also actually, because things became programmable, it allowed these sophisticated users to build extremely simple interfaces, right? Twitter may be the simplest publishing interface ever devised. It's far simpler than movable type. And, you know, the, the not not the company, but like the actual printing press type stuff, right? You need more expertise to operate that than you do to operate Twitter, right? You need more expertise to operate like a film camera, but developing the film and not exposing it, and so on, then you need to operate Instagram, right? So eventually, the programmability and sophistication, you know, for the power user, allows them to build tools that are ridiculously simple, right? So I think those two go hand in hand. And that's like a long term kind of thing. With that said, in the short term, I think we sort of at least during this period, overstate the extent to which we need to appeal to like new users, right. And the reason I say that is, you know, the baby boom of crypto was 2017. The last one, right? mil 10s of millions of people got into the space. And now like, you know, the the average, you know, crypto age of those folks, not they're not there yet, like like physical age as a human, not like rows of 40 or 30, or 20. But their crypto age, like for the time they got into crypto has creeped up quite a lot right now. Now, these folks are more sophisticated, you know, they're in the game. They know what Lambo and hodl are, you know, right? They're experts. Okay. I'm kidding. But at least they're more expert, right? And, you know, maybe, you know, they go from saying, hey, what kind of bitcoins Should I buy, which is, you know, like, what an outsider to the space will say, to Okay, there's Bitcoin, there's aetherium, they know, other currencies, or whatever, you know. And so as their sophistication level rises, I actually think you want to sort of double down on enabling all the defy stuff, and the privacy coins and the, you know, prediction markets and all that type of stuff. Because what the sophisticated actors do in this cycle will get, you know, the nice UX around it, it'll become usable. And that's going to drive the next upcycle. Just like in the, you know, 2013 to 2016 window, the sophisticated actors started getting into aetherium and smart contracts and Icos and so on. And, you know, that was a big part of what drove the next cycle, of course, along with, you know, Bitcoin as well.

Unknown Speaker  34:38  
I think that that makes a lot of sense. And so, how do you see Coinbase his role in the industry and helping, you know, make that transition happen? And helping make that transition happen more quickly? Yes, right, right. Coinbase has a lot of power in the industry and very trusted brand has a lot of resources. Yep. And so I think Coinbase is uniquely positioned to help make this transition happen.

Unknown Speaker  35:03  
Yeah. So how do you think about that? So manthra is sort of like add assets, verbs, nouns, banks, countries, right? So assets obvious, right? verbs were just talked about the crypto economic actions that are enabled frequently by those assets, like staking, like voting, like predicting, you know, buy sales and receive, you know, long shorts, you know, store us. So, assets have verbs and nouns, which is to say, get the various kinds of entities in the crypto economy, on our platform, and anybody who's had problems onboarding into Coinbase, or what have you, we have now like a strike team just focused on that, right? So if you're a crypto hedge fund, or you're an asset issuer, you're a miner, you're a blockchain company of any kind, we want to open an account for you. We also want to start, you know, giving you special services that start meeting your needs, right? For example, a lot of people want to start with their Fiat and crypto with us, right? Because, you know, they've got hybrid models. So now the SEC, we can do that, right? So we can, you know, like the cold all of your funds, right? So add assets had verbs and nouns at banks and countries, that's self explanatory, basically, just to kind of expand globally, and serve all of the users of the crypto economy. And recognize that, you know, like, this is this is this world historical thing, we can do a lot. And we're doing a lot of thing for America and the West and and hopefully more of the rest of the world. But crypto takes its own sweet time on some of these things, right. And so we do these things we prepare, we serve our existing customers. And we make the difficult things become usable, right? For example, with staking and voting, making those usable and easy to use in our in our in our interfaces. And then as sophisticated actors get comfortable that and we've nailed it for them. Well, they can evangelize all of their friends in the next run up. Got it.

Unknown Speaker  36:48  
So I want to open it up for q&a from the audience. If you guys have any questions, please.

Unknown Speaker  36:58  
we're observing a strong conglomerate effect in the exchange ecosystems? How do you think about the synergy when designing several products at once? Are teams more siloed? Or more integrated?

Unknown Speaker  37:09  
Yeah, great question. I mean, I think

Unknown Speaker  37:12  
komische really, you know, tries to operate as one team and not be siloed. So you kind of want to have like an internal network effect of verbs, right? Where the different functions that we're enabling kind of help each other.

Unknown Speaker  37:29  
Anyone else?

Unknown Speaker  37:33  
What do you think needs to happen for people to earn crypto as an on ramp of value to start occurring at scale? It's a great question so well, with

Unknown Speaker  37:46  
Quimby CERN, you know, so earned got acquired by Coinbase. Last year, we recently announced that we have actually now we have north of $200 million worth of cryptocurrency that we're giving out through Coinbase earn. So I think like, you know, getting to nine figures is pretty, pretty important. Right are impressive. Yeah. Yeah. So So basically, that's it, just go to coinbase.com forward slash or, and you can sign up for that. We've got some big announcements on that coming more over the next couple of weeks, like international expansion and, and even faster getting getting on. But I think once we've gotten something like where, let's say the majority of Coinbase users have earned crypto, I think it started to arrive as a new method of getting there. And, you know, just to talk about earning a little bit more, in the long term, what you'd like to do is have something where anywhere there's a phone, there's a job, right, so just like you can scroll down your Twitter feed and find somebody to fight with, you know, like, we'll let you you know, scroll down your, your your feet of tasks, and find something that suits your particular talents, disposition and available time, right? You know, you're in the airport. Okay, I've got 20 minutes to kill, maybe I will, you know, fill out this survey, because they're looking for a biotech, you know, executives opinion, or, oh, I've only got, you know, two minutes, but this person is paying me 20 bucks to just give them some advice on something, right. And so the idea would be with with crypto, we could enable micro consulting, where anyone, anywhere could employ anybody else at any time for any amount of money, right? And that's like a long term kind of vision, right? Where you have this kind of very fluid, Digital Economy of labor. And I think part of how we get there is all of these asset, you know, issuers, as the developers are sitting on large pools of funds, and they want to go and get users to actually use these kryptos. Right. So we've done with Coinbase earn is, you know, as our first large sender of tasks on we have all of these asset issuers lined up who are educating their users, so you learn crypto while you earn about crypto. And so you can watch videos for example on z cash or zero x or bat or stellar or these other things. And you learn how those kryptos are used and you earn some of them and you kind of use them The bad thing is really interesting because yesterday they launched brave ads. Yep. Which allows you to earn crypto just by browsing the web.

Unknown Speaker  40:09  
I think earning crypto is a very powerful user onboarding mechanism, because not everyone wants to just invest.

Unknown Speaker  40:17  
Yeah, exactly. And in fact, actually, I look at it as the first, I don't know 10 to 100,000, users hundred thousand is kind of on the high end mind crypto, right. And then you kind of got from 100,000 to 10 million by buying. And I think you get from like 10 million to like a billion by earning because you don't need a credit card. You don't need a bank account. Anybody on any device can do it. It can it can scale internationally, you can pay people from everything from, you know, answering emails to solving captures, filling out surveys, you know, all types of stuff. Right. So I do think that's going to be a huge part of the next run up.

Unknown Speaker  40:51  
A couple more in the telegram group, from Mark, would Coinbase consider trading stocks on his platform. That way retail users could trade crypto and equities on one platform.

Unknown Speaker  41:02  
Um,

Unknown Speaker  41:04  
no comment on that. Okay.

Unknown Speaker  41:08  
Next one, from the telegram group from from James, how does Coinbase think about enabling all of its users to interact with web three? Are their key areas that they want to abstract away?

Unknown Speaker  41:19  
Yeah, so we have something called Coinbase wallet, maybe a little bit confusingly named. But it's actually a separate app from the main Coinbase app, which gives like full web three, you know, interaction and functionality, lots of the defy, and dap developers are aware of it on. So that's like, our main thing right now that allows like, full web three functionality, we may probably will do more in the future.

Unknown Speaker  41:42  
Excellent. And then I got one more from from Brian, on telegram group. What does Coinbase think about the lightning network is an opportunity for Coinbase to earn fees and provide liquidity for their users? Um,

Unknown Speaker  42:01  
I think I'll skip that one, too.

Unknown Speaker  42:02  
I think we have a question right here. Yeah. If you look out five years, what would you say are the one or two products or roles that are really coin basis to lose? So once you think you're very well positioned to dominate those, those areas in five years? Well, you know, and that you want to pursue, right? Because

Unknown Speaker  42:23  
yes, intersection of it's a great question. I mean, like, I, I hate to call it to name anything like that. And the reason is, like, you know, the tech industry is littered with the bones of companies that thought that, you know, they had one and so on the, the Yahoo's and MySpace is in the, in some ways, actually, like, you know, the IBM's, whatever. And so I don't want to be complacent in any way. I think everything is, you know, possible lose anything's possible when it's still very early industry.

Unknown Speaker  42:57  
Or I think we have time for one last question.

Unknown Speaker  43:04  
Victor asks, and prefaces by saying friendly question.

Unknown Speaker  43:09  
Coinbase has Google rating of 1.9 stars with 175 reviews, what is coin basis go to market strategy to attract non crypto users?

Unknown Speaker  43:18  
Oh, well, so that thing, I think is due to, like, folks who lost money on Bitcoin, like gave negative reviews on Google, which is not something that's within our control. So, you know, what was the second half of the question? What's Coinbase

Unknown Speaker  43:39  
is go to market strategy to attract non crypto users.

Unknown Speaker  43:43  
We don't have a go to market strategy to attract non crypto users. Like you mean people. Are you saying? I mean, Coinbase? is a crypto company? Are you saying new users is that you're saying? Sure. Okay. So I think that like, you know, the crypto boom was obviously the most reproduced like the most scalable, but non reproducible customer acquisition strategy. Right now we're actually focusing on more is taking all the sophisticated stuff that's happening in the crypto economy, packaging it making it easy to use for the existing users with the expectation that once it's like staking voting, all this stuff is one click and easy to use. You can open a CDP or engage in a prediction market, you can send a shielded transaction or you know, like, open up a new smart contract, maybe even do issuance or what have you. Once all that stuff is like one click in a nice package interface. And we have served all the existing sophisticated users that itself will open up new things, and that will bring the new people in. So it's like serve the existing users make all this new stuff happening, easy to use, and then that will, you know, lead to the next step up.

Unknown Speaker  44:48  
So awesome. Well, thank you so much for joining us. Really appreciate it. Thank you, everybody.

Transcribed by https://otter.ai
