Unknown Speaker  0:12  
Thank you, Tom for that kind introduction. So, you know Tim's going to talk about the blockchain and why it's actually interesting and why it means value is now programmable. Alright, so, why why do we think blockchain is, you know, the most important technology this decade, you know, Tom gave my bio, I won't belabor it. But basically, currently CTO Coinbase part of that sold the company to coin base earn part of that general partner at Andreessen Horowitz, you may be familiar with the firm on we also sold a company for about $375 million. It's a genomics company literally came out of biotechs just you know, down the street over there with my brother and a bunch of our friends, and basically just, you know, a Stanford guy through and through, so, you know, I kind of know your your pain. So that's me. But enough about me, let's talk about Bitcoin and blockchain. So I like this particular image, because I think it motivates you know, this is screencap of Wireshark. And you can see the Bitcoin protocol literally as as a protocol on screen. And what's amazing about this is you can see that payments have been turned into packets, right? This is, you know, a transmission, you know, this is a Bitcoin block, you can see the bytes over here. And what's remarkable about this of what's absent, right, there's no hspc there's no Wells Fargo, right? There's no countries, there's no you know, licenses or anything like that, right, what we have done is literally digitize the transmission of value. And if you think about how big a deal it was to digitize books, and music, and movies, and newspapers, and so on and so forth. The the underlying technology behind blockchain allows us to digitize now, cash stocks, bonds, mortgages, loans, derivatives, and all kinds of new things, financial instruments that you haven't even maybe thought of yet. So So this is, you know, really like the motivating thing once once we've got something into the realm of computer science, well,

Unknown Speaker  2:10  
all the folks can go to town.

Unknown Speaker  2:13  
So there's going to be a lot of fun in the next 10 years. Alright, so I'm going to give you know basically 10 things about blockchain 10 things about coin base and go through a fact and certainly answer all your earlier questions. So just about Coinbase, or about blockchain, I want to review Bitcoin blockchain and Ethereum, and then talk about Coinbase, a little bit and do a q&a. So first, just for those folks just to level set x and others varying backgrounds on, I want to give the very, very, very basics. And in particular, this slide over here, is if you only remember one slide, and you don't want to remember anything else, this is the motivation behind why I even invent Bitcoin in the first place. Right? So you know, with physical cash, right? If I have $1, Bill, and I hand Tom, that dollar bill, there's an implicit property of the dollar bill, which is when a hands that dollar bill to be a no longer has it, and B has it right, I had it, then now Tom has an anybody who's observing that can

Unknown Speaker  3:06  
see, you know, that that fiscal bill was handed over,

Unknown Speaker  3:09  
if I try to naively transplant that to the digital realm,

Unknown Speaker  3:12  
okay, if I take the the Federal Reserve serial numbers on that dollar bill, and I just go and email them to time, okay, well, I still have a copy of the serial numbers, and I can go and email them somebody else. Okay. And that is the fundamental issue with a naive representation of digital cash,

Unknown Speaker  3:30  
it is the double spend problem,

Unknown Speaker  3:33  
I could have spent those serial numbers with Tom and then with somebody else and somebody else. And so simply using serial numbers alone, that's not sufficient

Unknown Speaker  3:42  
for for basically scarcity in the digital realm.

Unknown Speaker  3:45  
And so the way that we until the invention of Bitcoin, the way that we we represented digital cash was with a with a bank, right, like a centralized actor that we trust in the middle. And this actor over here

Unknown Speaker  3:57  
is where the scarcity enters the system,

Unknown Speaker  4:00  
right? When a sends money to be digitally, C is trusted to debit a and to credit B, right? So this is where the the scarcity enters the equation. And think about this is

Unknown Speaker  4:10  
you're putting a lot of trust in C,

Unknown Speaker  4:12  
right? They can debit and credit anybody, they can choose not to debit or credit, they can not, you know, allow a transaction to go through an extremist size and you know, 2008, you know, they could print billions of dollars for themselves.

Unknown Speaker  4:23  
And so this is something which is,

Unknown Speaker  4:27  
you know, elegant from a computer science perspective to have a trusted central node if you can, if you can avoid it. And so what stitchy Nakamoto did is he came with D, decentralized digital cash. And so essentially this central actor this, this bank, was replaced with a network of miners, and any one of those miners could approve that transaction that debit or credit between A and B. And so since any one of them could approve it, one of them disapproving it you know, all they would just do is be giving up some some Bitcoin that they would have mined otherwise, it's basically a way to combine transaction approval and and senior edge

Unknown Speaker  4:59  
currency. sprinting in the same unit.

Unknown Speaker  5:01  
So the details of this aren't

Unknown Speaker  5:03  
super important, you know, like, technically, you know, at least for a talk like this, but the concept is important, which is we took physical cash, we tried to naively turn a digital cash that didn't work. So we had these centralized actors. And Bitcoin dispenses with those centralized actors by having anybody in theory who can connect to the internet with sufficient computational power, cannot approve transactions and push them through. Okay. So the cool thing about Bitcoin is once people understood this, and once people understood what a breakthrough it was, they said, Oh, well, you know, this data structure that that these miners are updating that blockchain that fundamental innovation behind Bitcoin, that's essentially a tamper resistant database for storing arbitrary things of value. You can use it for certain cash and you can use it shorting stocks and bonds and, and so on and so forth. But Bitcoin itself wasn't that easy to work with, on it wasn't wasn't built for programming, or it was actually but Satoshi turned off a lot of the more sophisticated opcodes early on, just just to keep it, you know, simple and attack proof. And so what happened was, more recently, a new blockchain was launched in 2014, called aetherium, about five years after launch of Bitcoin. And to understand the improvement that aetherium gives. Here's an example of like a script in Bitcoin, which is kind of almost like assembly language, like a stack based language. And here's what you know, aetherium solidity looks like, which is a little more like, like English, or JavaScript or what have you. And this programmability led to a huge new surge in crypto activity. And in 2017, it was this massive Ico boom. And this went up, you know, from like, you know, on the order of 10s of billions of dollars to many hundreds of billions of dollars and then down to 100 billion dollars.

Unknown Speaker  6:43  
But the thing about this is

Unknown Speaker  6:46  
on, you know, even though, like the the Icos like came up, and they went down, you know, we think of it today, it's, you know, it's a winter for price, but the summer for innovation, a lot of the stuff that kind of got started back then and is starting to work, you know, for example, you know, you've got decentralized prediction markets and decentralized loans and decentralized relatives, that stuff is all starting to work, you know, the winter for price, the summer for innovation.

Unknown Speaker  7:09  
One thing that Icos themselves, by the way is

Unknown Speaker  7:11  
they represent, in my view, the simultaneous destruction of venture capital, swift crowdfunding and cap tables. And I'll come back to that point. But essentially, you can invest in something internationally with a group at the same time, and have all of the property rights recorded in the blockchain. So anybody can see that's like such a big deal and so many innovations at once, that people can sometimes lose the forest for the trees because they say, Oh, you know, what are you funding you're funding all this crazy stuff. But if you just look at as an innovation in crowdfunding or in VC or, or swift or cap table, it's actually a pretty big deal. Okay, so this, this brings us to the present day. So you know, it was Bitcoin than the blockchain, then aetherium. ico boom, and now the present day, the crypto winter, you know, which for price summer for innovation, okay. So, you know, the way to think about the blockchain is a technology that improves fundamental financial primitives. And one way of thinking about this is, you know, a blockchain as I mentioned, it's a database for storing things of value. And it started with cryptocurrency, which is like digital gold. And you know, more recently we've had you know, these so called ERC 20s, these these tokens, which represent like equities, but you can also use it for other stuff, right? You can use it for non fungible assets, like, you know, so called, it's very technical Sanibel in game items, like swords and potions, you know, baseball cards, collectibles, or even eventually piece of real estate, right? You can use it for representing identity. And frankly, you can use it for representing almost anything scarce. Anything scarce you can think of you can represent in a blockchain. And you might say, Well, why use a blockchain for things that are scarce? Well, once you've got a database that represents all the money in the world, the first thing someone's going to try to do is write themselves a million dollars, right? And so you have to actually say, Well, first, I want it to be tamper resistant. Second, I don't want one party to be able to write themselves a million dollars, I want it to be decentralized, right, so that you know that the power is split, no one person can write themselves a million dollars, they might need more than a million dollars write themselves a million dollars. And once you start thinking of those kinds of constraints, like a database that represents things value, you start to be led to the kinds of properties that blockchains have. And once Of course, you can solve the problem of preventing someone from writing themselves a million dollars, you can stop them from writing themselves a million potions or a million acres or a million of anything else. So as I mentioned before, you know, like Bitcoin turned all this stuff into into packets, right? there literally protocols, you know, Bitcoin aetherium you know, these things that you can open up Wireshark and see the raw packets and update the underlying blockchains right and so, just it's actually completely amazing when you think about that on anybody who's on the internet can send and receive cryptocurrency back and forth, you know, just send packets back and forth. One consequence of this is you know, there's there's another you know, people have talked about the unbanked and You know, it's important problem that that I think crypto can solve in the in the long term. There's another group of unbanked which are, which are machines. And you know, we gave machines, telephone numbers in the form of IP addresses, it used to be that you had to have a human who is associated with a telephone number, when you give a machine an IP address, a machine can then autonomously communicate back and forth, right on and you do that all the time, whenever you written a bot that goes in, interacts with Twitter, or scraper, you know, like that, that spider's web and connects other you know, computers, autonomously. Autonomous machine communication was a really big deal. And we believe that autonomous machine transaction where machines can hold and send money on your behalf will likewise be a very, very big deal, right? Here is just a simple, you know, get up guest that, you know, string over there represents money, right? So if you can now transmit a string, you can transmit an arbitrary amount of value, which is

Unknown Speaker  10:53  
pretty awesome.

Unknown Speaker  10:56  
So a lot of the stuff in the late 90s, people talked about when they talk about intelligent agents, or like bidding entities and so on, that's all actually starting to happen. In the primary context in which it's happening are things like, you know, exchanges, especially decentralized exchanges, you can go and write a program on your laptop that will literally make you money as you sleep by arbitrage in these decentralized exchanges. I think over time, and like the 10 2030 year timeframe, every price on the internet, every amazon.com, you know, product will have a cryptocurrency interface. So if you have some arbitrage strategy for like wool, versus, you know, fleece sweaters or whatever, you can actually arbitrage anything because everything will be priced in crypto. That's I think, where arbitrage stuff goes in the medium to long term. Okay. fourth point, you know, people talk a lot about the potential of blockchain. And I do think it has a lot of potential. But, you know, it's actually something where, you know, in some ways, it's overhyped, and somebody is actually under hyped, right. That's to say, there are fundamental financial primitives that The watch has already delivered like a 10 x improvement on and I mean, a quantifiable 10 x, right? So, you know, the easy one, the obvious one is gold, right? So Bitcoin is infinitely lighter than gold, okay, like it's it's faster transport internationally, it's cheaper to custody. And to give a concrete example of this, you know, when the the German Bundesbank tried to repatriate a bunch of gold from New York, it took them years, it costs millions of dollars to bring back billions of dollars in gold on and while that might be an infrequent operation, it's an extremely important valuable operation that frankly, underpins like, you know, a big chunk of the world economy. And if you've improved on that, that's that's a big deal. Right? Gold is a $2 trillion industry. If that was the only thing that that blockchain ended up doing. That'd be that'd be a pretty big deal. But but it's more than that. Tom's gonna buy some Bitcoin. Yeah. So it's more than that, like, with the with aetherium.

Unknown Speaker  12:47  
You know, and other kinds of cryptocurrencies

Unknown Speaker  12:49  
that represents a 10 x improvement over Swift,

Unknown Speaker  12:51  
right, you know, Swift, if anybody's sent a wire internationally, that takes days to clear typically. Whereas with aetherium, I can be on the phone with somebody, and just like, I can wait for that email to hit, I can wait to just see it in the blockchain. And, you know, I can say, oh, that transaction is done, boom, I can, you know, now now and get the deal closed. And so you know, this is the speed difference here is the difference between, like a physical mail, like, you know, sending sending a letter, which takes two to three days versus email, which takes, you know, minutes, and think about how big a difference that made, right, like when you went from physical mail to email, just the metabolism of business changed. When you go from two to three days for international commerce, two minutes, the metabolism of international business changes, right? Third point, crowdfunding, right. So in 2015, if you go to Wikipedia, and you look at the list of the largest crowd funders, okay, you will see that it's like, you know, maybe 10 million $15 million. By 2017 2018. A large crowd funder was $4 billion, right? So that's like a 400 x improvement in about two to three years. And and that's, that's more than 10 x that's like, you know, 400 x. Now, you might argue, well, what are those things funding, they're all funding Icos and crypto stuff, that's all this real bureaus. But it's actually something where you could fund a building, right? You could fund pretty much anything. You know, now, now that folks are customized using crypto to do this kind of thing. It's a powerful new innovation in crowdfunding. And I can go on and on and you know, probably write an article on this, but just a few more examples. So like Delaware incorporation, right? In many studies, like the World Bank has a study called doing business. And in this study, they actually say, Hey, you know, how long does it take you to incorporate in your country? Does it take you weeks or months or does it take you days? And if takes you days Well, you're you know, great country for business, great country for startups, will theorems shattered that destroyed that because it's not days anymore? It's minutes, you can literally get a smart contract into the blockchain in minutes. Right. And that's amazing. That works internationally. You're not incorporating in Delaware, you're incorporating on the blockchain. And that might seem like an apt comparison today, but lots and lots of stuff, all these VC terms all These bits of Delaware law are currently as we speak being encoded into smart contracts. So that incorporation on the blockchain will become probably the default. And like, I don't know, 10 or 15 years. And you know, there's more like the time to set up bank accounts, the time to audit, you know, in 2013, people talked about, you know, Bitcoin is a scam. But today, the Big Four, when they audit a blockchain firm, they use the blockchain as the source of ground truth that they check all of your transactions against, okay, so from a scam to the gold standard in like five years. And so the point here is retexe, in all of these financial primitives, like basic, basic fundamental things, and how we move money, how we think about money, and that's going to have consequences, good consequences, hopefully relatedly not only have you know, blockchains, 10, x lots of things, they've already created many billion dollar entities, right? So, you know, three that, that have arisen in particular, you know, the folks who founded new coins on the miners who run these gigantic server farms, in the changes in each of these three groups has created and captured billions of dollars in total revenue, it's comparable, sort of to the 90s internet, when it was kind of the infrastructure stage and, you know, search engines and Akamai and,

Unknown Speaker  16:09  
you know, AOL, and so on, were getting built out at that time.

Unknown Speaker  16:14  
Six, now, people talk about blockchains as being trustless. And Bitcoin is about, you know, no trust, I think a much better way of thinking about it, is that they give you a choice of who to trust, okay, so before you just had to trust a bank, right, you had to store your money in a bank, you can't just go and, you know, withdraw, like, you know, a million dollars from the bank, or you could but you know, you've been in a lot of lists. And, you know, today, what you can do is you can certainly still start a bank should you so desire, you can start with, you know, a company like Coinbase, or, and this is very new, you can store it on your computer, you can store it on a USB key, you can, you know, store it in the cloud, and you can basically self custody an arbitrary amount of money. And that's a major innovation, because, you know, it's like, you can't carry a bunch of gold bricks around with you, you might be able to carry around suitcases full of cash, but it's a little bit conspicuous. And now you can carry an arbitrary amount of money. So that's a very new thing. You don't have to trust a bank if you don't want to, and places like that as well. This is actually, you know, truly a killer app. Number seven, I hinted at this before, but just just to drill into this point, one can argue that the single most important data structure in Silicon Valley

Unknown Speaker  17:23  
is the cap table, right?

Unknown Speaker  17:25  
namely, the very simple table that shows, you know, which people or entities own what shares of the company, right, your common stock, your series, seed A, B, etc, right? That data structure, that little table, that Excel spreadsheet maintained thing is what has aligned people from every country around the globe, you know, in in to build Silicon Valley, and the scale at which it's aligning them is 10s, hundreds, sometimes thousands of people pre IPO, and then you build this huge company, and then everybody, you know, hopefully does well together. But you know, the state of the art for managing the most important destruction in Silicon Valley is an Excel spreadsheet or a Google Sheet, right? Just kind of kind of amazing. And now what we've got with the blockchain is you can 10 or 100 or 1000 X, that number of people, you know, something like, you know, bat, for example, is 54,000 addresses that hold that and you can see exactly who owns what, when, right. And this is fully programmatic. So one way I think about it is, if aligning a few hundred people, you know, at a time built Silicon Valley, what does aligning a few hundred thousand people at a time or a few million people at a time? What can that build? Right? So you can now align human beings and incentivize them like never before. That's, that's a really, really big deal. So number eight, uh, you know, one way to think about this is, you know, like, some of you here will be like, Oh, you know, I got to see it for too late. I miss mobile, you know, it's over. No, it's not over just beginning. So, you know, one thing we think of is like blockchain first or crypto first is like the new mobile first, it provides a weapon with which to go and attack and open many industries or areas that are close to competition, or seemingly impregnable or not even thought of as a kind of thing you could innovate on. Right? So, you know, I already mentioned, you know, international wires and precious metals and messaging, and I'll talk about the social bit in a little bit more. But there's also other areas that are that you normally wouldn't think of as things you can even innovate on, for example, like DNS, right? With crypto, you can innovate on DNS, you can innovate at the protocol level on you know, with with things like you know, block shack or DNS or handshake where you can register domain names, these are also scarce entities, you can register them in a blockchain and you can route you know, things through them. You can have incentivize versions of BitTorrent incentivize versions of smtp. All these protocols, you know, that you previously thought of is kind of, you know, non monetizable or now potentially improvable and monetizable. Um, there's also you know, Commons like, we pedia open source projects where you can take a fresh gloss and them and think, Okay, how could I maybe tokenize this, how can I make this even better? And so you know, this type of stuff, you know, there's there's so many different crypto first companies that are kind of swarming and attacking these different verticals that I couldn't even enumerate all them. But this gives you some of the flavor of a quick misadventures alone is made, like 40 investments or the course last year. Ninth point, so blockchains break network effects, okay, and they give a completely new tool a can opener for going after scaled social networks in two sided marketplaces. One way of thinking about this is if you think about Metcalfe's law, you think about network utility, typically, you know, the larger the network, you know, the higher the value to the user. So Facebook, 2 billion people, you know, supposedly, you know, runaway advantage you can't displace, right. But there's something really interesting about crypto, which, which is that if you have a token whose value is associated with the startup,

Unknown Speaker  20:57  
on the tokens, upside is maximal

Unknown Speaker  21:00  
when the size of the network is smallest, right?

Unknown Speaker  21:03  
So for example, an early investor in Snapchat on had more upside than somebody who invested in the series D round where it already had, you know, 10 million plus users rent. So upside is itself valuable. And now you've got a second term in the equation, which can balance out that first term, some kind of hypothetical future value that for the first time, you can programmatically issue to your users for sign up and other kinds of actions that they take within your app, right? I mean, imagine if Facebook like had something where the the folks who signed up for it, the first hundred thousand, or 200,000, or million users, or end users received some slice of Facebook's equity for doing that? Well, that'd be a very big deal. And you'd actually start making money by setting up all these dumb social apps, right? So so that's actually something which I think is a very powerful tool for going after scaled social networks, two sided marketplaces and things like that split some of the upside with the user 10th and relatedly. On watchings, I believe are going to transform social networks. So for the last 10 years, people have been, you know, liking and posting and messaging each other, you know, wasting time, the next 10 years, you know, well, we've done making friends time to start making money, right. So basically, those edges we think, are going to now have money on them cryptocurrency and you're gonna have new kinds of social networks, we're going to call them maybe digital economies or crypto economy is the fundamental difference being that your time is not wasting your time. And I was actually like a form of work, where you're actually remunerated for it, right. And, you know, some of these, you know, maybe existing social networks might be able to retrofit. But I think you're gonna have to construct wholly new social networks that are based on these kinds of behaviors from the beginning, were earning is part of the equation. So, you know, finally, just on on top of blockchain, blockchain is like a partial move away from the cloud and towards privacy. Okay, an amazing stat from earlier this year is that ledger sold its million hardware wallet, right? Now, I think of a hardware wallet. Actually, this is earlier last year, early, early 2018. I think of a hardware wallet as being a pretty arcane kind of thing, right? But when a million of them have been sold, you're probably eventually going to have a billion sold in some form or the other, right. And you know, one possibility is hardware wallets, like like a phone charger, or bundled with a phone. So you get like three devices, you know, the phone, the phone charger, the hardware wallet, rather than two. There's lots of different distribution models you could imagine. But the fundamental concept is I think hardware wallets are going to become very popular. And that's a move away from the cloud and towards privacy. Because the whole concept of a hardware wallet is you're not keeping your keys in the cloud, you're keeping it locally. One possible future model is something where your data is on the cloud, but it's encrypted with the private keys that you're using in your hardware wallet. And so nobody can read it other than you. And it's only decrypted and re encrypted just in time. I think things like homomorphic encryption, and so on will make that possible. So let me briefly just give 10 things about Coinbase. And I'll take some questions. take a long time, I think. So, um, you can think of Coinbase itself, as like the interface between Fiat and crypto. Um, and, you know, we have both retail and like a professional interface. And on the Fiat side, we're building like a wall street 2.0, right, like custody and indexes and commerce. And on the crypto side, we're doing like blockchain first apps like like earn and Coinbase wallet. And we work closely with regulators on you know, our goal is to remain you know, the the safe, legal and trusted part of crypto on and you've got all these licenses and so on money, transmitter licenses, all that stuff. And our mission is basically to create a more open financial system for the world. And you know, what that means is kind of two different groups of users that would benefit from that, you know, the first group are, you know, developers, investors, you know, like power users of money who are trying to move money around in different kinds of ways. Do do fancy things with money. The second group are the marginalized, you know, the folks who are unbanked. The folks who, you know, do not have bank accounts, both of these folks in different ways are pushing on the financial system to make it more open. And those are our folks. You know, what does that mean? By the way, what is a more open financial system mean? It does mean upside sometimes means downside upside is that you can raise $35 million in 30 seconds, or disrupt remittances. The downside is there's new kinds of hacks and new kinds of scams and so on. But I do believe in the medium term, you know, will mitigate the downsides of things like like multi Sager or what have you.

Unknown Speaker  25:36  
You know, Quimby's, we're kind of thinking of ourselves as bridging from the investment phase to the utility phase, which is to say that crypto has sort of the opposite emergence model of social media, social media piled up the users first, and then had to prove out monetization. And crypto proved that monetization first and almost the most literal sense, and now needs to prove out utility. Right? on but we're seeing that happen, you know, I can go to lots of different things with earn with decentralized finance. And we think that's a big part of the next, you know, five years or so. Coinbase is actually named after where the blockchain starts. So the so called Coinbase transaction is where the new crypto is created in Bitcoin. And that's why you know, we think it's also where the blockchain starts for users, right? Like just like Windows you started using it, you know, the Start button, or Google searches where you started browsing internet, you know, log on to Facebook, how you started using social media, couldn't This is where you start using crypto, right? So we think of ourselves as kind of like this sort of on ramp this the Start button for for crypto. making headlines you can read about more about us, online. And that's about it.

Transcribed by https://otter.ai
