Unknown Speaker  0:00  
Hey everybody, it's Eric Torbert, co founder, partner, village global eight network driven, venture firm. And this is Metro stories, a podcast covering topics related to tech and business with world leading experts.

Unknown Speaker  0:21  
Please join me in welcoming navall raava Khan Balaji Srinivasan and Eric torn Berg to end forum.

Unknown Speaker  0:31  
Welcome, everybody to tonight's program and forum at the Commonwealth club blockchain today and tomorrow. I'm Eric dornburg. partner and co founder at village global token daily. And it is my pleasure to be speaking to some of the biggest names in blockchain navall raava, Khan, co founder chairman of angellist and Balaji Srinivasan, CTO of Coinbase, navall Balaji. For the beginners out there, how do you explain what is cryptocurrency? What is blockchain? Why should people care? What's fundamental about this in three minutes,

Unknown Speaker  1:00  
I think human beings are a network species, we operate in groups, we always work in groups, we're like ants or bees in the sense that we have to cooperate to do anything interesting. And that's kind of how we conquered the world. But we are unique species in that we cooperate across genetic boundaries, everyone in this group is pretty much unrelated to each other yet were brought here by common cause and interest. And we're the only species that can do that. And so we build these networks. And these networks in history are have to be governed because networks have rules, they have cheaters, they have people contributing resources, and you just have to figure out how to organize them. And historically, the way we've organized these networks is we create a country and put a king or a president or ruler in charge, or we have an elite or an aristocracy in charge, or we'll have a key priest in charge, or we'll put a corporation in charge. Or we'll have a democracy where it's one person, one vote. So these are kind of the ways that we have organized networks throughout human history. And invariably, whoever's at the center of the network just ends up very powerful kings become tyrants, elites become aristocracy, these corporations become monopolies, democracies turn into mob rule sometimes. So you have to worry about who's in charge of these networks that run our lives. And these networks are very important. Electricity is a network phone system is a network The United States is in network money's in network, your favorite religion is in network. So it's very important who runs these networks. And the last few hundred years, we've created a new way to organize these networks. And those are marketplaces and whether it's credit markets that market stock markets, currency markets, markets are a way to organize a network with no single ruler in between even market mechanism doing the pricing and the allocation. And what blockchains are, is there a way to bring this network this market based networks into all digital systems aren't many kinds of digital systems. Bitcoin is the most famous one. But there we say, hey, money is too important to be controlled by any one central entity. So we're going to do instead is we're going to organize it through a blockchain based network. And we're going to use mathematics and rules to make sure that even though nobody is in charge, nobody can cheat. No one can spend the same money twice, no one can steal the money that already exists, or aetherium is a network for running trustless, smart contracts, financial contracts, and distributed applications. And we're going to make sure nobody can cheat, even though there's nobody in charge of this network. And we're going to use a market based mechanisms to do it. But unlike a stock market, or a market for tomatoes, we're not paying with cash, we're paying with resources. So anybody can enter this network, they can contribute the scarce resource in Bitcoin that might be hash power to secure the network in file coin that might be computing and storage, to provide more storage resources for people who want to use a network like a new Amazon Web Services, you could have a self organizing network on a blockchain that controls electricity. Like today, we have pg&e Pacific Gas electric here controls who gets electricity. But you could create a solar network where everybody puts a solar grid on there has solar panels on their house, and they pay into the network with solar power, they get paid back out with solar coin, and nobody's actually in charge, and you still make sure nobody cheats. You could do the same with a network that's allocating bandwidth. So we don't need Verizon to do our cell phones, we could all do it collectively. You could even do a social network that's run this way. So you don't have a single King like Mark Zuckerberg or jack Dorsey being dragged in front of Congress for hearings as to how they're running the network today. So really, what's happening is the internet is moving from this idea. You know, the internet was originally supposed to be a democratizing force, it was supposed to be, oh, everything's gonna be equal. And even, we're all gonna have websites, and nobody's going to be in charge. But now meet your new overlords, Google, Facebook, Twitter, Amazon, these are the people really in charge. So what blockchains do is they give us a system for taking networks that normally would have been run by individuals or kings or corporations, and instead, making sure that their leader less and that to me is what's really exciting about them. I didn't really describe how they worked, but that's kind of more at a meta level. And what's interesting is we're starting with the single hardest thing, which is Money. Bitcoin is trying to replace gold or maybe even money at some point. And if you can do that, then you can replace any network ruler, if you can run the network for money without a single entity in charge, when everyone's trying to break it, and everyone's trying to steal from it, then in theory, you could make any network decentralized. And that's what I think is interesting about blockchains.

Balaji Srinivasan  5:21  
Yeah, that's great. Let me take somewhat orthogonal cutter, maybe complimentary. So let's say that you wanted to have a database of all the money in the world? Well, your first requirement for that database would be that some random person can't just update it and award themselves lots of money, right? Everyone would try to do that. So that database has to first be highly tamper resistant, second, very auditable. And third, it needs to be in a sense, decentralized, so that no one actor can just go into war themselves a million bucks, right? And we start in numerating, the technical requirements to build something like that you get something like the blockchain that underpins Bitcoin. And what a cryptocurrency is, is the native money on a database like that. And so once you've got a database that can represent all the money in the world in a tamper, resistant way, such that no one party can hoard themselves lots of money. Well, you can represent other things, not just money, but stocks and bonds, and, you know, mortgages, loans, derivatives, other kinds of things, everything from the things that have an analogue in Wall Street today, you know, like stocks and bonds, to things that don't like video game potions, or maybe, you know, a contract for harddrive space on someone else's computer things that we wouldn't think to trade on Wall Street. So once you can solve that problem of representing digital scarcity in a way that people can't corrupt it and award themselves a lot of money, you can solve a lot of other problems of coordination and representation of financial instruments.

Unknown Speaker  6:39  
So I'm curious to hear more about what got you both into cryptocurrency in the space the cryptocurrency space in the first place? Because you both have had long storied careers before cryptocurrency in a volume, among other things you democratized angel investing with with angellist and ambaji, you started a biotech company Council, which sold for almost 100 million dollars. So how do you explain your interest in blockchain as relates to the arc of your career,

Balaji Srinivasan  7:02  
you know, my, my first company Council, you know, was doing genome sequencing in the back in the biotech space and testing for Mendelian diseases. And as part of that, you know, I encountered a lot of regulations. And I started to realize, wow, a lot of these rules that were written 70 8090 years ago, are not as relevant in the modern world, and they're really holding back progress. And so I started to think, Okay, well, could that be applicable in other areas as well outside of just biotech, and I, you know, start to believe that was the case. And we saw that with, you know, the rise of Lyft. And Uber and Airbnb with taxis and hotels, old rules are holding back innovation. And it was also the case in finance. And so seeing that Bitcoin was technologically interesting, and also understanding that there is a market need, from, you know, having encountered what regulations were in practice. That's one of the big things that kind of got me from genomics into into the sector.

Unknown Speaker  7:52  
Yeah, I didn't have any grand plan. I just read a post on Hacker News. It was actually what was that post Paul Boehm. He was the founder of butter coin later, but he wrote a post on the Byzantine generals problem, which is the underlying computer science problem that had to be solved before he could figure out how to have a network without a ruler in the center. And we wrote a post that very cogently explained how Bitcoin solves that problem. And once I read that, and figured it out, I couldn't think about anything else. And so all I was doing was talking to my friends about it and brainstorming about it. And as I realized that this is a way out of centralized tech monopolies, it's a way out of gatekeepers for money. It's a way out of inflation, and printing of money and towards sound money and all of these things. I just couldn't think about anything else. And, you know, it's very, very rare that you'll find something that's technologically interesting, plus something that's socially really interesting. Plus, it can make you rich. And that combo is really addictive.

Unknown Speaker  8:45  
Well, in 2015, we had this narrative emerge the blockchain not Bitcoin narrative, where people said, it's not about this money thing, but underlying technology. It's really valuable for me at JPMorgan or whatever enterprise company we're working for. But recently, we've had sort of the opposite sort of resurgence of Bitcoin maximalism saying it's it's Bitcoin not blockchain. So I'm curious, where if you look at that as a spectrum, where your thoughts evolved on that spectrum, and what do you say to both groups?

Balaji Srinivasan  9:11  
Yeah, so I think actually the full two by two exists, right? There's like anti Bitcoin anti blockchain things. The whole thing's a scam. Right? Okay. Then there's pro blockchain called no coiners. Yeah,

Unknown Speaker  9:22  
exactly. That's a term that we'll get to that.

Balaji Srinivasan  9:25  
Then there's pro blockchain anti Bitcoin that's like the bank's you know, blockchain because right, then there is a pro Bitcoin anti blockchain and that's like Bitcoin maximalist. And then there's, I think, where I land up and a lot of I think investors in technology space will end up which is pro Bitcoin and pro blockchain, you know, kind of, let's say, upper right corner. And the reason for that is, I think, you know, you just have different solutions for different kinds of problems. You know, with the, you know, I think the internet is probably the best analogy, at least one that would be accessible to lots of folks here, which is that we went and we digitized movies and music and books and newspapers, and Pretty much every form of information. And, you know, that's obviously valuable 20 years later, and the same way with blockchain, we can definitely digitize gold. That's super important. But we can also and we should digitize, you know, stocks and bonds and loans and mortgages and derivatives and all that other stuff should get digitized as well. So that's why I'm in the Bitcoin and blockchain camp.

Unknown Speaker  10:20  
Yeah, I agree with that. I think with Bitcoin you're looking at sound money goals store value and possibly a currency over time. You've also got a set of currencies that do some that Bitcoin doesn't do today, which are the private currencies like z cash and Manero and dash and a few others. Because Bitcoin is it's as I think, a secret service guy called unprosecuted futures, everything is trackable on the blockchain, you know exactly where every transaction went. So a blockchain ironically, if it's controlled by a government ends up like the largest tool for totalitarianism we can imagine because everything is trackable. And then you've got where a cerium and a few others are going, which are these Turing complete blockchains Turing complete means they're programmable like computers. And they can, in theory do anything theater can do, although it would be more expensive and more slow. So this is trustless. Computing. And I think these are also very important, and they're very different than what Bitcoin is optimizing for. If Bitcoin tries to be more expressive, more programmable, more like a computer, it actually becomes more attackable and more hackable. And he doesn't want that. So on the other side, you have blockchains, that are like aetherium, which are Turing complete computable, they're more attackable, they're more vulnerable. They're not trying to be sound money, but they're the infrastructure on which you can build the entire parallel shadow financial system alongside Wall Street. And I think what may very well happen in this space is five years from now, we may see that you may have a whole series of applications on top of aetherium, or the next Turing complete blockchain, where you can do loans and you can do derivatives and you can place all kinds of bets and sort of this global financial market, but you can do things that you just can't even do on wall street because Wall Street's not that programmable you want to create a new financial instrument you got to go to Goldman Sachs has a lot of lawyers get deployed a lot of accountants a lot of paper, but here a 15 year old kid can hack something together. And then some grandma in Zimbabwe can be betting on that security contract. Now let's leave the laws aside for a second, but it's theoretically possible and because in the internet if it's programmable and theoretically possible, it'll happen. So I wouldn't be surprised if five years from now you have bankers who are working at Goldman who basically go to their boss and say look that custom derivative or security or bet that we want to do, I can do it but I can only do it on the blockchain I can only do it on this infrastructure that has been built parallels have to convert out of US dollars into aetherium or augur whatever the heck tokens I need to use do that trade and then come back so yeah, I'm I'm a crypto maximalist, not a not necessarily a Bitcoin, maximalist,

Unknown Speaker  12:41  
when looking back at our history to understand the future, some people like to look at the history of money to find out where crypto will go, they look at how monies have emerged over time. And the implications of that are that winners, money is winner take all Lindy effect, such as such, well there's people look at the history of the internet, say, you know, software is eating the world software tends to rewrite the things in which runs into and the applications there are that there can be multiple winners. And you don't have to be the first search engine in a social network, you just have to be the last. So as we look forward to the future, which history Do you think has more predictive power, history of money and history of the

Balaji Srinivasan  13:11  
internet? So I think actually, I wouldn't say that money's history is actually totally winner take all because you do have the dollar and the renminbi and the pound and the euro and the ruble and what have you. It's kind of like a slightly object that I think I think both histories are certainly relevant. I think most people are more familiar with the history of the internet. And you can point to that parallel. Okay, we digitize everything with information. Now, we're digitizing everything that's related to scarcity into finance. And that's a very obvious thing. I think, far fewer people are familiar with the history of money. But But with that said, sometimes, you know, history doesn't repeat, but it rhymes. It can, it can also lead you wrong. If you're too overly levered on a historical parallel, it can tell you it's going to happen like this. And it happens like that. Right. So short, short version is I think, I think both are relevant, but I would use them only as guides and not as like hard forecasted must happen this way. You know?

Unknown Speaker  14:01  
Yeah, I agree with that. Nobody actually knows what's going to happen here. How exactly it'll play out. It when you talk about just money, it's important to break it down into its components, we use money as a store of value. So you know, hopefully, it doesn't inflate away tomorrow. If you're in Venezuela or Argentina, that may not be the case, we use it as a medium of exchange, I give you money and you accept it for bread or horses or cars or whatever I'm getting from you. Or we use it as a unit of account, that thing cost $12 and that one cost $14 store of value does have a network effect, but it's not that powerful. Like for example, we do use gold as a store of value. We use Bitcoin as a store of value. We use real estate as a store of value. Look at Chinese buying apartments in Vancouver, we use oil as a store of value we use the US dollar as a store of value medium of exchange has a much stronger network effect because now the money's in flow who accepts what Who doesn't take what and then unit of account is the ultimate network effect because you only have one you I'm not quoting you something in dollars and RMB you just care about dollars. So The network effect actually can be influenced by which one of these properties of money you end up adopting. And the truth is today 99.9% of people in the world aren't using crypto. So it's still a jump ball.

Unknown Speaker  15:12  
I think one of the mistakes that people make in terms of not understanding history of money is one confusing conflating payments and medium of exchange. Yeah. And to saying hey, I'm never gonna be able to buy your I'm not able to buy Starbucks a Bitcoin does. It must be

Unknown Speaker  15:25  
Yeah, the use case for Bitcoin may not be Starbucks crypto is really good at micro micro transactions, where if let's say that, you know, today on the internet, we have denial of service, and we have spam attacks. And that's because bandwidth is too cheap to meter, but it's not people abuse it. So what if I have a server that says, hey, you can request a webpage from me, but you got to pay me a trillionth of a cent that can only be done in crypto On the flip side, and I'm stealing this from biology, but it's also good as a Spanish galleon, if I want to send a billion dollars to somebody, and I want to make sure that that I'm sticky finger, there's no sticky fingers from relayers in between, I would send it through crypto. So it's really good for the micro transactions, the macro transactions, it may not be that good for the human size transactions like going to Starbucks and buying coffee.

Unknown Speaker  16:08  
Right? And even if it isn't good for that, it could still be worth trillions of dollars. Absolutely.

Unknown Speaker  16:11  
If it just replay if Bitcoin just replaces gold, you know, gold is worth $7 trillion. And gold is not easily divisible. It's not easily verifiable. I can't store it in my pocket or my brain, I can't send it across the internet. So it actually has quite a few advantages over gold. But unlike gold, it is trackable. Unlike gold, it's easier to hack remotely on the internet. So it's got other issues or and gold has been has the Lindy effect. As as Nassim Taleb says it's been around for a long time, whereas Bitcoin is only a decade old. So we still have to see you know, new, it hasn't been fully tested. We have not seen sovereign nation states attack Bitcoin with all of their resources. Yeah.

Unknown Speaker  16:51  
I feel like I'm shilling Bitcoin. So I should specify that this is not investment advice.

Unknown Speaker  16:55  
Yeah. But yeah, none of this is an investment advice. If you were invested in crypto, you would have lost 20% of your money in the last 24 hours. So you know,

Balaji Srinivasan  17:02  
one thing just to complement that is, I think, with the just taking the internet analogy for a second Voice over IP was an application of the internet, but not the application. And in fact, it's probably one of the ones which has, arguably one of the least improvements over the pre internet status quo, because we had a working phone lines, and you could call somebody up and so on, right? Not to say that Google Hangouts forever isn't useful. But it's like a nice to have feature not a must have. Whereas things like search, or a bookstore that had an infinite number of books were a true 100 extra thousand x over the status quo. I think one of the reasons that digital gold is really important is it didn't really have competitors, in terms of where the financial system is right now. Because most people are not carrying around a brick of gold. It's like truly something that was a 10 or 100 x improvement over the status quo, versus paying at Starbucks, there's like 15 different options to that there's your MasterCard, there's your Apple Pay, there's your square terminal or whatever, answers reasonable options there. And so I think eventually, crypto will get into that niche. That's like one of the very last things it's like voice as opposed to one of the first things

Unknown Speaker  18:03  
I want to hear more about what applications outside of money you're most excited about within crypto and, you know, we focus on often tend to one use cases, something becomes much cheaper, like email, or snail mail. But I'm curious as to zero to one applications that unlock a fundamentally new capability like the internet with Wikipedia, you know, phones with cameras, and now you have Snapchat or your GPS. And now you have Uber, what are the 0121 application is going to be for crypto.

Unknown Speaker  18:26  
Some of these are less sexy and less fun, but they're very infrastructure related routers metering bandwidth, metering disk space and compute in distributed storage and computational grids. You can imagine that 10 years from now, the question of where do you host, your website will be a nonsense question. Because we just say on the internet, right, I just write the piece of code, I drop a fraction of a crypto coin into it. And then it goes in and buys a file storage and buys a compute power and buys all the pieces that it needs to instantiate itself and serve whatever customers show up on the web. So I think that's one interesting use case, this micro microtransactions that current money can address. On the flip side, I think it's it there is the sound money thing which is played up, but it's the revenge of the Swiss bank account. So it's the ultimate safe haven. If the Jews have to leave Vienna today, they're not carrying gold out, you know, they're carrying Bitcoin out. So I think that's another example. A third one would be, I think, setting up large distributed networks that are kind of bootstrap themselves. And I mentioned solar power earlier as one bandwidth would be another. So replace Verizon with a distributed grid of Wi Fi access points. You could even have self driving cars. If you're a future, we have a lot of self driving cars driving around, and they're communicating with each other. You could see them paying each other for rights away. I want that stoplight green right now instead of red, and you bid against each other literally congestion pricing on the fly, very efficient. Again, these are not super sexy and user applications. But I think these are ones that are uniquely enabled by cryptocurrency. And then finally there's a set of things that maybe we want to see exist, but the governments of the world for whatever reason don't allow them but are legitimate applications. Like a lot of economists would tell you that prediction markets working across the board would be incredibly useful for society yet, because they get caught up in sweepstakes laws and sports betting rules, and this hodgepodge of state laws in the US and international laws, you don't really have working prediction markets, they can't get the liquidation. They can't get the liquidity to make accurate predictions. And if we could have good prediction markets that we could start posing them questions like, what is the best way to address climate change that A or B in the prediction markets can opt into that? Actually not good for that one, but there's others to test that one. Cool.

Unknown Speaker  20:30  
So I was trying to explain Bitcoin to my mom. I should have used the Jews Vienna last year, that was explaining sort of the tribal nature of it explaining Bitcoin versus aetherium. I was explaining Bitcoin versus Bitcoin cash. I was like, Mom, there was a civil war floor plan around it. Everyone was ripple, and all these various sub battles and in it was interesting here, I say this all to say that, that crypto is not just a technology phenomenon. It's a social phenomena, their religion? Yes. And the social phenomena, the religion is perhaps just as interesting and fundamental as technology. So how do you make sense of blockchain as social? Like, why is it captured? parts of mine?

Balaji Srinivasan  21:07  
I get into that one? I think the thing is that, you know, when I first described it as talking about the blockchain as a kind of database, right, and it is that, but it's not just about the reads and writes to this, you know, digital data structure, as or even more important are the reads or writes to all of the brains around the world to make those people value that, you know, entry in the database as money. If you think about it, everybody's had a right to your brain many times since you were a kid to value a green piece of paper as valuable, whereas a blue one would not be right. And you'd kind of take that for granted. Why is this money? And why is this not? Well, they've been rights of software to all of our brains to do that, right. So as much as this is something which is writing software, it's also writing intellectual software to people's brains. And the reason that this tribalism happens is because that early group of folks who had those rights their brains to say, Okay, I can value entries in this database as being money. Well, there's a huge incentive in flipping those folks to one side or the other, because they're already, you know, over the hump of thinking of this stuff as money, right. So that's a good customer acquisition strategy. This is one very meta way of thinking about it. These folks have already gotten into the blockchain space. And a huge part of that is making folks valued as money. So different tribes compete for them. That's one way to think about it.

Unknown Speaker  22:24  
Yeah, it is a form of politics. Because if you zoom back, these are ways of governing networks. One big way we govern networks is countries, right? So moment, you're talking governance, you're talking about who's in charge, how do you run it? Do the developers run it? Do the so called miners are providing the resources to run it to the users run it through the exchanges that are in the center, run it? And so they just there's just like a big tribal fight over the whole thing. And unlike in a normal country, where tribes are fighting, like, say, Democrats and Republicans, or you know, if you've been on Twitter, there's a war on everyone's fighting, but they're fighting but they can't. A revolution is unthinkable, right? We're not going to take guns and go in the streets and split the country in half. But in crypto land, it's so easy to fork, you basically just take the source code, you create another copy. And now everybody who wants to be red goes over here. Everyone has blue goes over here. And now there's not a shooting war between the two different factions. So that just happens in crypto all the time. So the downside is the moment your digital governance, revolution is really easy. splintering factionalism, tribalism is really easy. And so these wars come very much out in the open. But on the other hand, it's also sort of a good thing. Because everything is being tried, as opposed to like in the US, we elect a president for for eight years, we head in one direction for a little while. Then we tack back, we had the other direction back here, we have to keep choosing in crypto land, you don't have to choose everybody can fork off at any time, wherever they want. And, you know, if we could do that in the real world, that would be kind of an interesting experiment. We kind of already do you fought to San Francisco or you go live in Texas, right?

Unknown Speaker  23:54  
No One No One specific in mind. You mentioned you mentioned religion, I have to ask, but crypto is religion. unpack that a little bit. And I mean, who are the were the priests who were the deacons were the clergy, like, paint a picture for us?

Unknown Speaker  24:05  
I'll change that analogy a little bit. The priests, the religious fanatics, the Jesuits, you know, the the Spanish Inquisition, here are the crypto people. And normally they would have allied with or competed with the kings. But here they're literally sacrificing the kings. They're saying to the altar of crypto, we get rid of the leaders. So crypto is just another part of the Grand trendline of the internet, which is getting rid of the gatekeepers. So the internet was supposed to get rid of all the gatekeepers. I keep going back to this Sorry to keep harping on it, but it's a peer to peer network underneath. It was supposed to get rid of all the gatekeepers, but now who are new gatekeepers? ICANN is the big DNS gatekeeper. Google's a search gatekeeper. Twitter and Facebook are the social network gatekeepers, and as far as Silicon Valley is concerned, oh, yeah, the internet revolution was great. We got rid of the old gatekeepers, and now we're the new gatekeepers. This is fantastic Revenge of the Nerds. But I think this is phase two. This is saying no, now let's get rid of the next set of gatekeepers. keep getting rid of them until there are no more gatekeepers.

Unknown Speaker  25:03  
Yeah, one thing. You know, as I look at this social phenomena, I think there's sort of a core idea that unites us all. And that power needs to be more diffuse, more diffuse, more equally held, and that technology market mechanisms can play a critical role in achieving that goal. But I think what the blockchain community has not clearly articulated what that society needs to look like, or how that becomes possible. It's a technology that points in a big, big direction, but not what it means or what it would look like. How do you respond to that?

Unknown Speaker  25:29  
I think it's going to be an involved process. I don't think it's a top down design thing. If you look at markets, look at the economy, for example, the economy is a giant series of markets. No macro economist can actually tell you how the economy works. You get enough macro economists in the room together, it's like politics, there's all this arguing, they can't figure it out. It's back to the blind people in the elephant story. They're all feeling different parts of the US and trying to describe it. So crypto is like that we've created something that's larger than just us. It's like the internet is larger than us. It's like the economy, it's larger than us. You have to describe it, observe it, evolve it and try to keep up with it, rather than trying to top down say, Oh, yeah, this is how it should work. And this is the vision we're all heading towards. I can

Balaji Srinivasan  26:11  
give some, you know, without getting into the macro, but I can give some examples of things I think will happen at the micro level that may be maybe interesting. One is I do think that crypto will in the medium to long term result in what I call instant jobs. Right. So right now, you can just land on a website and you can go and post like an unlike a forum or you know Facebook or Twitter, you can just go and post and post information, published information. We take that for granted. But that's a huge thing relative to say 30 years ago when it was very hard to go and you know, get a printing press and paper and distribute information. So instant jobs are interesting, you click a button, you do a task, you make money, we've got something like that at earn at coin base. And I think there's that's going to be a very big part of, let's say, 510 15 years out in Amer there's phone, there's a job ship a feed of tasks and you do those tasks. And that's that's your that's your job. The second thing I think is going to happen is at the micro level, I think we're going to get billions of investors. And this is actually something that I think is now kind of an obvious thing that's going to happen. But as being under remarked on, I think maybe 99% of the world will be investors and maybe like 1% will be entrepreneurs. And what I mean by that, I think everybody pretty much can buy something, you can go and buy something at Starbucks, you can you know, swipe a credit card, everybody here has bought something, it's pretty hard to build something. But with crypto, there's no more any, there's no longer any threshold for investing in something you can invest $1, you can invest $10, people put $10 into a theorem, they've got like, you know, $10,000 a, you know, like a few years later. Not every investments obviously like that in crypto. But it is the case that as you totally remove all thresholds, you can have somebody from any country in the world, click a button, and 10 or 15, or maybe in five, but probably like more like 10 years, just as easily as you'd like something or poke somebody, you could send them $1. And you're going to start to see fundraising rounds, maybe now in the United States, maybe in other countries, where it's like a million people putting $1 each into somebody, right? And that's going to be very commonplace. And maybe that's what you do recreational each day you spend a couple of bucks doing that. And that's like, you know, your is your replacement for Twitter or Facebook cuz you're not just liking or thumbs up on something, but you have a little bit of skin in the game, it's a little fun to follow that portfolio. You can see how it's doing and you're helping somebody get financing when they might not otherwise be able to do so. So I'm interested in this from like, micro economics. I think it makes a lot more people think like angel investors think like venture capitalists,

Unknown Speaker  28:26  
yeah, you can have people crowdfunding entire countries, you could have people crowdfunding war, you could have people crowdfund a revolution. I mean, like, like, the possibilities here are kind of endless. When, when people are investing $1 in something, maybe they're not even thinking about investing anymore. It's somewhere between donation and investing. It's like Kickstarter, a lot of those projects fail to deliver, but the investors don't really seem to care. You know, they were kind of doing it more to just support the founder as much as anything else.

Balaji Srinivasan  28:50  
One comment I'd have there, though, if you did try to crowdfund a war, I think you'd have a lot less more, because because I think people would wouldn't pay for it as easily. That's true.

Unknown Speaker  28:59  
It's easier to fight wars with other people's money. Yeah, Nassim Taleb made the good point recently that historically, people who warmongers, people who declared wars that skin in the game, they had to go fight at the front of the war. But today, you can be sitting at your desk in Washington, DC or in Moscow, and you can launch a war and you never have to fight in it,

Unknown Speaker  29:17  
and you hide the cost. But with

Unknown Speaker  29:19  
exactly any money, you print money, it's worth

Unknown Speaker  29:21  
double clicking on something you said, which is if you would invest in aetherium, at three cents, wherever the Ico was, that's a 3030 cent. That's a you know, perhaps that was a better investment than investing in Facebook or Google at the seed round. Yeah,

Unknown Speaker  29:34  
yes, true. 700 x within two or three years fully liquid.

Unknown Speaker  29:37  
Yep. say more about some of the sidora he doesn't miss anything. say more about some of the open to everybody.

Unknown Speaker  29:44  
And ironically, the people who missed it were the venture capitalists.

Unknown Speaker  29:47  
That's him karma, eras of great irony that talk more about what society looks like in a world in which everyone's investor, they're way more investors and I'm particularly interested in because they're like, The average American

Unknown Speaker  30:01  
looks like a giant casino. Right? First, it goes completely crazy. Well, everybody loses money like, yeah, everybody's scams, everybody. A lot of people have late slots, but you kind of have to let them go through that. It's a learning curve. It's like it took a while before the Securities Act came along and divided penny stocks from public stocks and what was considered legit and what wasn't. So it'll take a while for people to figure it out. And there'll be some money lost along the way. But it's a global learning curve, it's distributed across 7 billion people, it's happened very quickly, I would argue that, you know, the recent downturn has been great. kryptos had 75 80% of its value wiped out, some of these coins are down 95% and will fully disappear. That's good. Because it's going to teach people that, oh, you know, you can't trust everything you read on the internet. And you certainly can't send money to strangers. And you know, based on what they wrote, it will raise the levels of diligence. So it will raise the requirements for investing. And I'm hoping that out of it, we will see at some point, a real investment market will emerge. But in the short to medium term, it looks like a big casino.

Balaji Srinivasan  30:54  
Yeah, I would say a couple of things. I think a lot of the things that in Silicon Valley, we've developed like inner term sheets that contemplate things like liquidation preferences and drag along and stuff like that. They're all based on previous train crashes, or car crashes that happened, like you know, big conflicts that happened in the past. And then lawyers go and bake that into contracts. To avoid those things happening in the future, you're gonna start to see a lot of that baked into smart contracts, where a lot of the wisdom of you know how investments have worked, gets baked in, and folks start getting 123 year lockups on their crypto, you're already starting to see this type of stuff. And incentives aren't getting aligned. And so I'm, you know, optimistic in the medium term, that, you know, once you've got that kind of those contracts out there, and folks have done diligence on them, and they've proven that they're also in for the long term alongside you, then you're going to be more likely to listen to their recommendations on the coin, and then you'd buy in. So I think that's a process. But I do think there's a light at the end of the tunnel.

Unknown Speaker  31:50  
Yeah, long term, you'll see that a lot of these crowdfunding is online, to the extent they still happen, will require that the money goes into smart contracts that then very carefully bleed out the money to the developers or people as they hit milestones that are verified by third parties are held in escrow. And then as revenues come in, taxes are automatically paid and pieces that are siphoned off in dividends to the investors and so on. Ronald Coase, the economists famously said that a firm is just a nexus of contracts. And you can take the nexus of contracts here, and you can program the whole thing. You don't necessarily need lawyers and bankers and judges watching every little piece, for a lot of the simple stuff, you can just have it be on rails, and the first company that does it, because it's open source, the second company will just copy it and copy and copy, you won't have to reinvent the wheel. It's just like with code, it'll create layers and layers that people will build on until our kids will probably to them creating a company will be they'll just hit one button and like a whole series of smart contracts will fire up in a company will be created. And they'll drag and drop and who's an employee who's an investor who's holding out how much and you'll be able to run this completely distributed, virtual auditable trackable trustless company without needing armies of lawyers and judges.

Balaji Srinivasan  33:00  
Yeah, and actually, just to just kind of emphasize that or drill into that when, when you go and buy a car from somebody, right? They sell you sell to you. And the most important thing they're selling to you is, you know, the keys you put in the keys and the car turns on, great, you can go with it right? When you go and sell a company to somebody, it's not yet a machine like that, right? The owner can't just leave and you can't just operate it on your own. There's all of this hidden knowledge and you know, how to give this instruction to this person, what's the context of this contract, etc. The more and more of that we can encode into an exit of contracts, the system of smart contracts, the more soluble and liquid accompany is, because it's like a machine that you can just sell for its future cash flows, right. And think that's going to start with just basic websites, like let's say a file conversion service or something like that. That's the kind of thing where you can start to imagine, okay, it's got this many visitors a month. It's just code that executes on inputs and returns outputs. That's the first kind of thing I could imagine that starts to get sold in this fashion. But then over time, more and more complex companies start to be become machines, like cars that you can just sell and then operate without the owner.

Unknown Speaker  34:05  
So if the firm goes away, or the way we understand company building becomes radically different, what skill sets are now needed much more in order to thrive in the new blockchain economy.

Unknown Speaker  34:17  
It's the same skill sets that are always needed. Anything that a computer can eventually be trained to do, a computer will do. And the things that computers cannot do, and probably will not do in our lifetimes. I'll take the other side of the general AI that is they can't be creative. So at the end of the day, you want to be creative, you want to be learning skills to create new things. Entrepreneurship is one instantiation of that. Art is another but anytime you're solving a new problem, you're going to get paid for that I forget who said it but famously said that in the future, either you're telling a computer what to do, or a computer is telling you what to do, and you don't want to be the wrong side of that transaction. So it's it's much better if you can be creative, and then you can teach a computer how to do it rather than computers, giving instructions to do a lot A set of things that computers can't do yet. One question a lot of people asks

Unknown Speaker  35:03  
about regulation. But I want to ask a different question related to it, which is if you assume that a key role of governments and regulation in market economies is to correct for market failures, in a decentralized economy, how will you correct for market failures or as part of the crypto thesis that there are no true market failures, only distortions created by regulation itself? I think

Balaji Srinivasan  35:21  
that people want regulated markets in the sense that they want some trustworthy actor to ban bad actors and impose some form of quality rating on the system, which are, those are two different things by banning a bad actor is not the same as giving that's like a zero star actor, versus giving three stars to a well intentioned, but maybe not amazing, good actor, so that they want regulators to do this kind of thing. But the form that regulation can take, it could be a national regulator, or it can be an international regulator, like an Amazon and eBay, or a Lyft, or an Airbnb, which have star ratings, they have reviews, they have reputation, and people consult them and look at those star ratings prior to buying their products. It doesn't have to be a like national regular just has to be some trustworthy source of reviews and reputation that can D platform bad actors. And so I think what's gonna happen with the crypto space is you're gonna see a wide variety of different kinds of review and reputation and other kinds of sites arise, we're already seeing this, and then those that are good enough, will either be subsidized by, you know, crypto transactions, or are will be good enough that people will pay for just like the current market for like, you know, buy side and South Side advice. So I think that will arise, and then we'll see whether, you know, more is necessary than that, or whether that's a whole area in its own right,

Unknown Speaker  36:37  
yeah. And to the point of like, if a certain crypto economy has a market failure, it's poorly designed, and it's not allocating resources properly, or people getting cheated, they'll leave, they'll fork it, or they'll just go to another one. There's a Cambrian explosion of crypto experiments out there, which makes it really, really easy to hop around. And when you look at the price of one of these, it's basically how much trust people have in it right now,

Balaji Srinivasan  36:59  
I can add to that. Also, I think one thing that's an interesting concept is sometimes you have a period of tolerable anarchy. So for example, with email spam, it got really bad. And there are all these vigilante ish approaches that were proposed. And then, you know, finally, what actually did work was a mathematical solution, Bayesian spam filtering, which maybe didn't solve 100% of problem, but solve most of it, you know, with Gmail, you know, spam filters. And sometimes if you have somebody intercede too soon, they can lock in a solution. That's not necessarily the optimal one. Like Another example is in terms of spectrum auctions, you know, much later we developed things like CDMA and and and technologies that don't require like this government spectrum auction of, you know, frequency, division bandwidth, but those weren't available. And we locked in a solution based on regulation, rather than tolerating a period of anarchy and letting technology develop.

Unknown Speaker  37:46  
Or like right now with investing rules, we have a locked in solution called the accredited investor program, where you have to have a million dollar net worth, and then you're allowed to invest in a lot of private assets. And if you have less than a million dollars, you're considered a moron. And if you're more than a million dollars, you're a genius. And that's obviously not how the world works. And it should probably be replaced by some kind of sophistication test. And everyone's known it should be replaced by some kind of sophistication test. And here we are at three years later, still talking about what is the sophistication test?

Unknown Speaker  38:14  
Yeah, I want to hear more about how you two, we've talked about the outline the future, and we see how you want to participate in that future. So budget juice, maybe first you can describe the vision for for Coinbase and your work there. And then Deval you can get into Angeles coin, listen, efforts.

Balaji Srinivasan  38:30  
Sure. Yeah. So what am I doing equipment, so I am Oh, so I am driving the addition of new assets. First and foremost, the integration of earn and you know, making that something that I think, you know, maybe you'll be able to earn as well as buy and sell a coin base. And then a bunch of other cool projects, I can't talk about too much. And then doing a bunch of things with Coinbase ventures and investing in a lot of companies are coming up

Unknown Speaker  38:56  
and talk about about the vision of Coinbase

Balaji Srinivasan  38:58  
Oh, build an open financial system. And while that sounds may be like, you know, generic corporate speak or whatever. What it really means is, you know, if you think about what Linux was versus Windows, Linux was an open source system, and anybody could download it, and you could hack and you could get access to it. And now you had an operating system that you could customize. And the same way like building a more open financial system, it's hard to imagine a financial system that's more closed than our one is today, right? So a more open one is one where you can pull a blockchain and a kid in Vietnam can go and collaborate with somebody from Japan and, and Brazil and Turkey, because they're all using the blockchain at the same time. And we've helped onboard people into that we've helped educate them, we've helped them get their first amount of digital currency, maybe we've set up an exchange in their country. We've basically onboard people into this more open financial system. And that's that's our mission.

Unknown Speaker  39:45  
Yeah, I'm mostly involved in this space with coin list and with meta stable coin list is the legal regulated, well lit marketplace for Icos that we spun out of angel list. And we've run Icos for file, coin blockstack and a few other pretty well known players in the space Now we're also doing legal compliant airdrops so we just ran the definity airdrop, airdrop being when they're giving out coins to influential people like developers and they want supporting the project. And then with meta stable were the oldest cryptocurrency fund that bought anything other than Bitcoin. And mainly there we back teams that are building that are improving decentralization and scaling for new protocols on blockchains. So we're investors and chia basis, Kota. You may have heard of a bunch of these, but a ton of them. And we're always in the first round. And we try and do is we have a highly technical team that works with the companies to basically look at solving fundamental protocol challenges. I don't think we're quite yet in the phase yet where somebody can build large scale working applications and blockchains. You may not have caught this at the beginning. But the solution to how to make sure somebody doesn't run off with your money in blockchain land is everybody keeps a copy of the entire database going all the way back to the beginning of time. It's incredibly inefficient. So blockchains just don't scale. Well. You trade off decentralization and survivability for scalability. And so now there's a whole generation of startups are trying to solve the scalability problem. And so we back teams that do that,

Unknown Speaker  41:08  
because of course, started Angeles and angellist. Among other things, they tried to democratize venture capital democratize investing in startups. curious how you think about inequality as relates to crypto blockchain, you know, wealth, inequality, social inequality. Yeah,

Unknown Speaker  41:23  
I mean, you got to unpack the word inequality, because some people use to mean inequality of opportunity. And some people use it to mean inequality of outcome. So equal opportunity is, you know, the American dream, it's, in theory, if the American Dream works, we all have equal opportunity to get to wherever we want with enough effort, but equal outcome is quite the opposite. I mean, that's what you get in North Korea, right? So you have to be very careful about differentiating between the two because free people make free choices. And if you make different choices, you'll get different outcomes, and there will be unequal outcomes. And now we're living in an age of tremendous leverage. So if you make the choice to start a social network, while you're a student at Harvard, you know, you might be suck, and you might make billions of dollars. But if I make the choice to start, I don't know, like a location Tracking Network, you know, three years ago that goes to zero or if I make the choice to go study medicine, that's unleveraged. So we are seeing very unequal outcomes, because the huge amount of leverage in the system. So I think that over what blockchains do offer is they they do offer equal access. Anybody can go and contribute to the Bitcoin blockchain. aetherium blockchain, anyone contributed code to it. Anyone can contribute resources to it and not even just talking about good old fashioned inequality or equality of opportunity in the USA, I'm talking about globally. I'm talking across all ages, I'm talking about a 14 year old kid who's sitting in Bangladesh can contribute to the Bitcoin blockchain. So you want to have equal opportunity. They have equal opportunity in that regard. But on the other hand, in no way does it promise equal outcome. It's a meritocracy and meritocracies have winners and losers.

Balaji Srinivasan  42:52  
Yeah, I'd cut the problem slightly different. I mean, the complimentary, you know, so, which is inequality is typically concerned with, let's call it centralization of wealth. And within crypto people are often concerned with centralization of power. But those are actually very related things. And, you know, what I'm optimistic about blockchains for is, they give us a way as a community to fork off, and someone's only powerful or wealthy, if effectively, other folks are giving them that power, at least in the context of auctions. So we always have the sense that we always have this ability to vote against, you know, some kind of tyrannical force with our feet and with our wallet and fork away from it.

Unknown Speaker  43:34  
Yeah, in fact, I think one of the interesting things to notice that one of the ways that some of the new coins are competing with existing coins is they're taking a model, which is called the fair coin model, which is they're trying to airdrop or distribute the currency as widely as possible. So you're literally seeing new coins, instead of doing fundraisers from investors. They're just trying to identify people and just give away the coins. And the extreme version of that would be Facebook airdropping, a coin to billions and billions of users. Under the idea that the more widespread The money is, the more likely it will to be used as money and become valuable. As opposed to today we're sitting in a system where land ownership goes back hundreds or thousands of years, based on whose great great great grandfather got there with a gun first. So that's an unequal system, it's far more equal to like, reset the wealth and redistribute and then hope if you can get into enough hands, they can respond what money really is. Today, for example, the way the Federal Reserve distributes money is they basically drop it to the banks who have extremely sticky fingers and then slowly bleeding out in the economy. Is that the best way to distribute money? I'm not so sure. So I think at least with blockchains, we get to test new models of equal distribution of resources.

Unknown Speaker  44:40  
This is perhaps another version of a maturity test. But I'm curious, what would need to be true, or what facts would have to emerge in order to change your mind on some of these topics and maybe not become a crypto Maximus anymore? You say, you know what, maybe this is not gonna have that much big of an impact and I shouldn't spend too much time on it. What do failure modes look like?

Balaji Srinivasan  44:58  
I would say like if there's somebody Fundamental heretofore undiscovered security issue. That's the kind of thing which and what I mean by that is not something that can be patched, right? But like a theoretical new class of attack that renders, you know, all these different kinds of blockchains like infeasible, or you can consciously attack them and update them in a bad way. That would be the kind of thing which would, you know, make me say, Okay, you know what, I thought this was a secure way of building things. But maybe it's not, I think that's hard to do, because we've now got a diversity of different approaches something blockchains but it's possible. So that's kind of thing that would make me question whether that feature was to Israel.

Unknown Speaker  45:33  
Yeah, I think there's a technological failure cases, I think that you could have, let's say, a Bitcoin or something like that gets used like a, you know, a horrible terrorist attack. And you know, how the government is like, any excuse to grab power like after, after 911, we got the Patriot Act, Patriot Act gave us all these kinds of abuses, including NSA surveillance of all of our activities for the rest of time, I could see politicians overreacting and blaming all of crypto and basically cracking down on next gen internet, in which case it sort of flees to other countries. And it kind of goes underground and still gets developed. It just gets developed elsewhere more slowly. How should governments be responding to all this? Well, the government, the government's are in a little bit of a, they may not realize this, but they're in a little bit of a race with each other. The United States is extremely lucky that we have the reserve currency of the world today. And we're extremely lucky that Silicon Valley is parked in the US, it's not luck. I mean, a lot of it is due to good policy. But we're lucky that that good policy existed or exists that allowed those formations to happen. And I think in crypto land, what we're basically saying is at least big chunks of the next generation of the Internet, and possibly what is the next definition of money is up for grabs, like, if I was like, you know, running a little Singapore, I would strongly consider just buying a bunch of some cryptocurrency probably Bitcoin. But if it's too expensive, maybe I'll just make my own. And then make sure we have all of it and make a legal legal tender, and then make it available to the rest of the world. So then all of a sudden, you have a cryptocurrency that has a lot of usage, and other people in the world can adopt and use a sound money. And by being the first adopter here in a big way, the country would end up just making trillions upon trillions of dollars equivalent, and would probably become the new reserve currency after the US dollar. So in some light sense, the countries of the world are in a competition against each other, but it takes a big leap. So I would mostly agree that I also think there's a big mental shift you make when you go from thinking of the government to a government, because there's more than 100 governments in the world, right? You know, depending on how you count it more than 70% of Silicon Valley is made of immigrants. And everybody here, you know, either within your lifetime or your parents lifetime, up and up and left, why to make a better life, right for economic opportunity. And if that economic opportunity is not in the US, because it's not keeping pace with the blockchain? Well, you know, it's easier to move nowadays. Now you've got mobile, you've got social, you've got all this stuff you can get on, you know, Uber get to a flight right away. So you know, the other aspect of it is you don't need huge amounts of natural resources. You don't need like a, you know, a mine of uranium or something like that for to build a blockchain community. You just need a internet connection. Yeah. I mentioned a good regulatory environment, right? Maybe a nice beach. That's right. So any any, maybe a nice set helps, right? Actually, the blockchain companies are the most distributed companies in the world, right? Because we invest in them all day long. We see them all day long. Their developers are spread out some cases, they're fully anonymous. Like even the team members don't know who the other team members are. And they're all over the world.

Balaji Srinivasan  48:25  
And not necessarily all companies. Right. Some of them just go resource groups. Yeah, they're open source groups, they just go straight crypto, and may not even have traditional terrestrial you know, making

Unknown Speaker  48:34  
that is one that's coming up. That's really people are into that all the developers are named after a Harry Potter character. And nobody actually knows who they are when they live. Yeah,

Unknown Speaker  48:42  
yeah. But why isn't Singapore other governments doing this now? Or what would? Is it possible that they might? Or is it too much of an innovators dilemma? It's

Balaji Srinivasan  48:51  
another sharding, like multiple

Unknown Speaker  48:52  
people just take one? Yeah, it'll just take one, we're looking at one. So one has to be both desperate enough and smart enough, like Venezuela's desperate, but the thugs are still in charge, right. So it's, it kind of just has to come together in the right way. You could see, for example, a post communist Venezuela that sort of recovers, when people are getting together, they're gonna have a choice of what do we do with our currency? And nobody will ever trust the bulevar ever again, hopefully. So then what do you do? Do we adopt the US dollars legal tender, but now our monetary policy is set by the United States? So you could see that there are scenarios where if the crypto infrastructure is good enough that they might go with a cryptocurrency?

Balaji Srinivasan  49:26  
Yeah. And there's, there's already governments that are definitely, you know, moving in a very pro blockchain direction. So Malta, Bermuda, Estonia, and, you know, then a bunch of others that haven't necessarily announced anything publicly. But I think, you know, governments are already trying to compete, for example, for Amazon's HQ to right, they're trying to compete for Google's sidewalk labs, and they're trying to compete for various investment dollars from startups and tech companies. This is just an extension of that

Unknown Speaker  49:52  
ability to use some thoughts on how blockchain unlocks or enables new career opportunities for us to think about our careers in different ways that you don't have to be in Silicon Valley. Yeah. unpack that a little bit. Sure.

Balaji Srinivasan  50:01  
Sure. Yeah. So I have this concept that your single most important metric for your life is arguably your personal runway, which is your savings divided by your burn rate. And the thing that's interesting about that, well, you know, savings, very anti American thing to talk about,

Unknown Speaker  50:17  
let's suppose it's not well, then we're gonna, okay, great.

Balaji Srinivasan  50:18  
So, you know, the thing that's interesting about that is, it's much much easier to reduce your burn rate by five extra 10 x by moving out of San Francisco to, you know, Thailand, or India or South America or something than it is to increase your net worth by five or 10 x, right? And because like reducing your burn rate is deterministic, it's within your power, you could execute on it tomorrow. And what's interesting about crypto is it's making it even easier to go and earn like a San Francisco or first world salary. Even if you're in you know, the developing world and the developing world has gotten a lot nicer, because you know, globalization over the last 10 or 15 years. So you can have a basically first world standard of living with you know, three or four times as much savings each year. And then you don't need angel investment. You've you've got plenty of runway, you can work for a year and take two or three years off. So I think that's going to become a bigger deal is this combination of digital nomadism remote work cryptocurrency etc. That's a trend I see growing.

Unknown Speaker  51:15  
This already happened to me, I won't name the time but I was on vacation to beach town somewhere in Asia. And I was looking to get away from all this stuff. And I get there and they have multiple crypto co working spaces. They have a big blockchain incubator. People are recognizing the next thing and I'm giving talks about it, especially when you get to those kinds of places with a lot of expats, you notice that a number of them are now making a living somehow in the crypto community

Unknown Speaker  51:40  
with some great audience questions that I don't want to get into AI and blockchain complimentary or competitive in the long term.

Balaji Srinivasan  51:45  
So teal actually has a good line on this, which is he had an observation that AI is mostly centralizing. And blockchain is decentralizing in the sense that first, this is like definitely buzzword bingo first. Yeah, it's just getting thinking, right. But if you actually engage with it, to to build a machine learning algorithm, you typically need to accumulate a lot of data. And that is typically a centralizing thing. You've got data from lots of different people or lots of different cameras or wherever, all in one spot, you know, the Chinese government being like the zenith of that kind of centralization. It is possible with technologies like federated machine learning, or homomorphic encryption to actually keep the data local, and then just collect some coefficients, but it's harder, much harder. So AI is going to be this probably centralizing force that will give more power to centralized institutions. Conversely, blockchain is a decentralizing force. And the key thing is, even though it makes it more complicated, because it decentralize everything. It creates enough money and wealth that more than compensates for the cost of decentralization, which I think is a critical thing. And that's why I think blockchain without Bitcoin doesn't work or blockchain without a token doesn't work, because then you're just decentralizing without that added economic incentive. So those are these two kind of, you know, forces centralization, decentralization, I think you're gonna see interesting mixes and remixes between them. But those are, that's one axis on which to cut it. How

Unknown Speaker  53:03  
do you think about identity in a blockchain world? How does it change the concept of how we understand identity and a lot of people talking about anonymity, privacy, but perhaps they're missing the bigger picture on how it's going to reframe our sense of identity? What is it thoughts on that?

Unknown Speaker  53:15  
I'll let you dig into it again. But I think at a very high level, you can have identity, you can have your wealth tied to anonymous identities in the blockchain world, which you can't do in the real world, or as much harder to do in the real world. And then also in blockchain land, you can actually own and control your identity. Today, our choices for identity ownership are the government which like leaks, social security numbers left and right, credit card card companies, every waiter has your credit card, or it's, you know, Experian or whoever just got who got hacked and lost everything. It's Facebook, you trusted Zach with your identity, right, he'll sell you for like a 10 cent click Add. So all the ways that your identity gets held out, there are just sieves, like you don't actually own your own identity. anyone here who has been the victim of identity theft knows how incredibly frustrating and useless it is trying to like regain your identity. And then we talked about biometrics where Yeah, somebody lifts your fingerprint once and your identity is stolen for life. So I think we have a big problem where in a world where we have digital assets, that our identities are all over the place. And the good news about crypto is that to secure your digital assets properly, they've had to build tools that are very, very good for preserving identity. So we're going to see a lot of efforts spent by a lot of crypto entrepreneurs to bring personal ownership of private keys identities and passwords to the masses. And that's one area that I'm really excited about over the next decade. So if that happens, it's not just for securing your Bitcoin ownership. It's also for securing all of your identity data, including your medical records and your credit history and all those kinds of things.

Balaji Srinivasan  54:43  
That's right, I think your crypto private key is are going to be an anchor that brings a lot of stuff local. And that doesn't mean the cloud goes away. But what it might mean for example, is that your private keys encrypt a lot of your data in the cloud and only you can view them Or only you can compute on them or something. One aspect of having private keys be local, is that, you know, an identity system is effectively built into every cryptocurrency because it's as if you have to sort of present credentials, you know, you need to sign a transaction, before it can be broadcast and accepted by the network. And that process of signing it is effectively an identity verification step. And so we can build a lot of stuff on that primitive, just like, you know, your your credit card might be looked at by the person at the counter, and they just see is that actually, you this step of identity verification, can be used to set up new kinds of social networks, right, where you're synonymous, but your balance shows that you're actually you know, an actor with some investment, you're not just a troll, you put, you know, 50 or 100 bucks into a token governing this network. And now, there's less incentive to just go and a character assassinate people, because they have no character to assassinate, you just kind of have to discuss ideas, right. And you can pseudonymously trolled them, you know, but it's not, you know, was refined in that, right. So, so I think that this, you know, this entire concept is something I call like the pseudonymous economy, I think in 2030 years, it's going to become much less frequent to put your, quote, real name on the internet. It's like putting a social security number out there, or your personal phone number. It's this global identifier by which all the people who need to know it and know it, and the people who don't need to know it can just use a pseudonym, maybe a realistic sounding pseudonym. But you know, they wouldn't know it wasn't your real name. They don't actually have that handle that kind of grabs you and they can pull the database records on you.

Unknown Speaker  56:31  
We talked about blockchain and AI, I'm curious how you see blockchain intersecting with other emerging technologies, whether it's virtual reality, or Internet of Things, or some of the quantum computing

Unknown Speaker  56:41  
as buzzword bingo, you know, quantum computing gets brought up as like, Oh, this could break blockchain encryption. Not really, they're already quantum resistant hashing schemes out there. And in a very deep physics sense, quantum mechanics, sorry, quantum computing may actually help block chains. Because it turns out that doing the hash function, entangling things is easier than detaining them even in quantum computing relative to normal computing. So it gets brought up as this Ooh, what about quantum computing thing? I'm not worried about it at that level. with VR, it's actually really interesting, because VR is about that we're in digital worlds. And I'm sure many of you seen or read Ready Player One, the foundation of a digital world is a digital economy. And if you want a digital economy, then you're not going to sit in a digital economy and swipe a credit card and wait for it to go to Visa or MasterCard or PayPal, right? It's got it's got to be like programmable, it's got to be part of the whole ecosystem is gonna be permissionless, the programmable the internet, especially if it's going to dominate our lives, to that extent, is going to have its own native money. Right? Do you imagine that 100 years from now the internet not going to have its own native money, but it's still going to be using dollars and RMB? Are people shipping bricks of gold around? Of course not. Right. So I think that a true functioning virtual reality ecosystem, which is probably, you know, one to two decades away. So still a little far out, will require its own native programmable electronic money, and crypto is the way to do it. Yeah, let's play it out,

Unknown Speaker  58:01  
one to two decades away, you're 2030 years even further, who are the big winners and losers? Or what types of players are going to be the big winners and losers?

Balaji Srinivasan  58:10  
So I think, well, winners, hopefully will be the world in the sense that you're going to have way more people able to get jobs, raise capital, trade without banking fees, you know, incorporate exit stock companies invest in companies, all of that type of stuff, you know, I think is going to come much, much more widespread in terms of, you know, folks who might be on the other side of it. Well, I definitely think Wall Street is going to get a run for their money, you know, from from all of this. And you know, some of the firms are smart, and they know that blockchain is important and others, you know, they they're not yet there. And then, you know, we'll see what happens.

Unknown Speaker  58:46  
It's almost, you have a form of government governance right now that doesn't require rulers or central actors anymore. So anyone who's made a living as a gatekeeper is going to get hurt. And on the contrary, on the converse of it, anyone who was kept back by gatekeeper gets helped. But it's a very, it's a very fuzzy statement, right? It plays out in a million different ways. For the

Unknown Speaker  59:05  
builders in the audience, for the engineers for the people who are either starting to build in the space, or perhaps they work at, I don't know, Facebook and Google and are curious about the space, I want to get into it, which is sort of call to them. Where do you want to see them? Building, experimenting, innovating? What's your, what's your call to arms?

Unknown Speaker  59:22  
I think the best way to get into it is if you're a developer, and engineer is start understanding blockchains themselves go contribute to some of the open source code bases, these are all open source. And they're always looking for volunteers and contributors. It's amazing how even some of these incredibly large block chains that have 10s of billions of dollars writing on them will have a handful of developers you can count them on one or two hands. So just people diving in and helping out it just takes a small number of people to make a huge difference. And it automatically makes a name for you. Like if you're one of the Bitcoin developers today. You've got any number of career opportunities, whether it's at a hedge fund or whether it's at an exchange like a coin base, or wherever people want To work with you. So it's the 25 Yeah, it's the ultimate resume. You could be 12. Yeah. The you could be a Harry Potter character. The ultimate resume? Yeah. You could be at this exact stopping you.

Balaji Srinivasan  1:00:11  
I mean, folks here in the audience are engineers.

Unknown Speaker  1:00:13  
Okay, if you are listening as well,

Unknown Speaker  1:00:15  
yeah. Okay. So most of them have better things to do.

Balaji Srinivasan  1:00:17  
Yeah. So so I'm if you are an engineer, so certainly the highest threshold is, you know, contributing to the codebase. If you aren't yet there, what you can do is use communities set up a private cluster of, you know, aetherium nodes, or Bitcoin nodes. And then you can actually simulate, like, an entire set of transactions on them, you can have the mind you can have them send things back and forth. And you'll actually get an understanding for how the thing works. And its own hothouse environment, because you can like replay an economy. That's, I think, a really good way to understand how like all the pieces work, you don't

Unknown Speaker  1:00:51  
even have to build anything, crypto, I can't build anything. crypto is so incredibly complicated. It's the intersection of crypto and cryptography and mathematics and computer science and economics and governance because our field, yeah, just learn about it. I mean, just go read up on it. It's really endlessly fascinating. It's, it's like when the internet first launched, to contribute to the internet to do something on the internet, you didn't have to go write a web server, you didn't have to go contribute to a browser, you could just understand how this thing works underneath and start thinking through how it can play out. And eventually, of course, the internet is impacting almost every aspect of our lives. So that is the potential here as well.

Balaji Srinivasan  1:01:26  
Yeah, that's, that's one of the interesting things about this space, like 90% of people can be capitalists, and one percenter labor, because the labor is this really mathematically technically challenging thing, but everybody can at least go and buy it. So that's, it's something that's sort of an inversion of what things used to be, or it can be dropped it. Yeah.

Unknown Speaker  1:01:46  
And maybe that'll be the new basic income. It's not quite a joke. There are people in crypto land, we're talking about? How do we airdrop enough coins to everybody that if this takes off, that's the new basic income.

Unknown Speaker  1:01:57  
And again, if we say that learning about it is its own reward, so it is a my honor to have us participate in the Commonwealth club tradition, which is with one minute left to ask both of you, what is your idea to change the world?

Unknown Speaker  1:02:12  
I think it's your turn.

Balaji Srinivasan  1:02:15  
So I think that this is somewhat related to crypto, I think the ability to collectively move large numbers of human beings. And by that what I mean is like crowd migration, you know, you take a Facebook group right now, and you know, people are just talking to each other, and so on. But over time, you start adding cryptocurrency to that, that becomes like a digital economy, you start adding virtual reality that that becomes like a true virtual economy, people, it's got a persistence to it, it's got, you know, money to it, you've got a job there, etc. That's I think, where this you know, social networking is going in 1020 years, I think, eventually, those you know, virtual economies, you're going to have all these folks who are, you know, somewhere in Arkansas, and some are in New York or whatever, they're going to want to actually like move to one place. And I think that that's going to be a very important feature of the next 10 or 20 years, something called tea bow sorting in economics

Unknown Speaker  1:03:03  
mind is not crypto related, I think that it would be computers getting so cheap tablets are getting so cheap. And I think that and we have the entire Library of Alexandria of the modern age available on the internet that I would love to see like a giant airdrop of tablets, the developing world, where you can basically just have all the textbooks, you can have all the interesting learning materials, you can have all the courses all the Khan Academy, preloaded ready to go. It can figure out with some simple software, what language you speak, what level of education you're at, and automatically start teaching you from there. And it can connect you with volunteer network of millions of teachers across the world who can video in at any point and help you that you're stuck. So I think we can educate the whole world much more cheaply than we're trying to do it today.

Unknown Speaker  1:03:47  
Not to invest in that.

Unknown Speaker  1:03:49  
Thank you very much. One last huge round of applause. navall raava Khan Balaji Srinivasan

Unknown Speaker  1:04:07  
if you're an early stage entrepreneur, we'd love to hear from you. Please hit us up at village global.vc slash network catalyst.

Transcribed by https://otter.ai
