Unknown Speaker  0:14  
Balaji Welcome to the realignment,

Balaji Srinivasan  0:17  
experiment, guys.

Unknown Speaker  0:19  
So there's a million things we can talk about you with. But I think what we're going to focus on first is this idea of decentralizing media. Because obviously, you had a bit of an interesting Twitter discussion, Sally say about the new york times. And obviously, we could sort of focus on the personalities. But I think the thing that makes actually interesting conversation point is, is clear about something bigger, like a bigger, bigger set of ideas and conflicts within East Coast media in Silicon Valley. So be great to sort of see where is your thinking at on all these topics?

Balaji Srinivasan  0:50  
Yeah, so I have a I have a tweet, actually, from last year where I said, mainstream media, then social media and decentralized media. And that means decentralized reporting, sourcing, hosting, distribution, payments, bounties, predictions, reputation, verification, consensus and truth. Okay, that's a that's a ton of stuff right there. That's a, that's a PhD thesis, right. But let me kind of give, so it's like a bunch of keywords, I can drill and teach them and I will do that. But at a high level, let me kind of describe one way that that I and really other folks in tech, think about this nowadays. Um, because, you know, the, like, like, a lot of the concerns and things I've said on social media are by no means limited to me, there, there's something that really a lot of folks in the global tech community have been thinking about for some time. I'm just also level set actually an interesting point, just a day or two ago, on the New York Times announced a new CEO. And, you know, Meredith Levine, and she's extremely well qualified, and so on. There's interesting interview in the information, which talked to her, and you know, what her vision for the New York Times was, like, I tech, that's exactly right. Right. And, you know, with with music downloads, and, you know, movies and films and so on, sort of like a, like a Netflix, Spotify, Apple news ish combo, though, of course, you know, the news is where their first party starts. And in a sense, you know, this is like, the path not taken in the year 2000. On, you know, there's sort of a fork where, you know, tech folks, you know, Yahoo tried to become a media company, and it didn't work for a number of reasons. One

Unknown Speaker  2:27  
was a community that eventually had a bunch of shows, icon shows,

Balaji Srinivasan  2:31  
yeah, it turned out that was like the infrastructure era of the internet. And people were mainly interested in tools, and it just wasn't ready at that time, or maybe the personnel, you know, sometimes you haven't Alon, they can pull the future 10 years earlier, you know, SpaceX and Tesla are still ahead of their time. And you were even further ahead when when he started them, right, or actually, he didn't start a little bit, you know, when you invest in it. But point being that an entire generation of tech companies saw the lesson of Yahoo, that, essentially, you can't be a media company and a tech company, and they just built pure tools. Right. So that's Google, obviously. But then it's also Facebook, which calls itself a social utility, right? That's entire concept of user generated content, like YouTube and entire set of social networks. It's also Dropbox, it's also all the SAS apps, right? These are all tools that are, you know, content, you know, I shouldn't say agnostic, because there shouldn't be, you know, filtering and defaults and so on, put into them, you know, is it vertical video or is 140 characters, there's definitely constraints, right. But for the most part, they're pipes. And, and this was considered, and until very recently, the conventional wisdom that you don't do media companies, right, because those aren't actually important to profitable. And then on the other side of things, you know, on the legacy media companies, were not innovating in terms of doing search engines or social networks. You know, just as sort of a interesting historical tidbit. Don Graham actually almost invested in Facebook in the last round post. That's right.

Unknown Speaker  3:53  
Yeah, I mean, Zuckerberg, you know, they came very close,

Balaji Srinivasan  3:56  
it was very close. Right? And, you know, like, Don Graham bowed out of it, that was like a mistake for him. But, you know, not that he needs the money or whatever. But that might have led to a different universe where maybe the post doesn't get acquired by Bezos, or there's like a post Facebook fusion who knows right. And, you know, so what happened was for many years, essentially media, you know, kind of mocked tack or thought of tech is like, kind of a little brother, kid brother over here in San Francisco. And tech just grew and grew and grew. And I think that by by about 2013 or there abouts right after, you know, the first Obama re election, tech and media ribisi allied going into, you know, Obama's re election and you can pinpoint it to like December 2012. If you remember that, like the there's a bunch of articles in Politico, the Atlantic about, you know, how the nerds go marching in and, and tech people helped Obama get reelected, there's a lot of positive media coverage and so on around that, right. And you can date the, you know, like the, the silico bureaucrat split, you know, that the West East Coast split to basically Like about four months later, when I'm, you know, post Obama's re election, there was now a conflict between the East Coast and the west coast where East Coast folks sort of woke up out of their reverie and realized that for the last four years, these tech folks who they had kind of thought of is just a, you know, just another constituency had now just risen up to such an extent and taken all their ad revenue, especially Google and Facebook. And thus, began a spate of negative articles that grew and grew and grew over the last six years. And you know, in the form of the tech lash, right, going after every kind of technology company quickly

Unknown Speaker  5:32  
apology, because you just made an allegation, which I think is an interesting one, which is that the negative coverage of the tech industry came because of the business competition, right. So the second that always sort of publishers, were losing ad revenue to Google and Facebook, they started saying we need to treat take this thing hostility? I think that's Do you have any evidence? Yeah, we just do have any evidence for that. But I think that the reason why I'm skeptical of that idea is that if you actually talked to reporters of what soccer is actually been they don't know anything about the business side, to their detriment, right. Because, you know, the reason why Craigslist was able to sort of take classified advertising from places like the New York Times The Washington Post and local papers was that there is this Chinese wall as the term between that authorial operations and the actual business. I just don't see a world where actual tech reporters started thinking, holy crap, the business model that we use is under threat. So to start writing things, sorry, you've got something to eat? Well,

Balaji Srinivasan  6:33  
yeah, I'm sending you some tweets. Okay. Yeah, we're looking, we're looking Okay. All right. But put this on the other screen. Jamie, your

Unknown Speaker  6:41  
budget isn't there yet, unfortunately.

Unknown Speaker  6:43  
All right. Yeah. Right.

Balaji Srinivasan  6:45  
Well, well, so if you let me just read this to you. So there's a tweet I had on May 16, quoting Ben Thompson of strategic curry. Okay. And he in turn is quoting, NYT reporter. And here's his quote. That is why this section of Smith's article is so illuminating, and so depressing. Just look at the logic chain, Smith lays out media crusades against tech governments respond to media, Facebook has taken a beating Facebook pays media companies media approves, again, this is Smith's logic chain, not mine. At what point do we believe in?

Unknown Speaker  7:14  
Okay, here's the thing, though, and this is I've read that article, just one quick. Yeah, I really, I've always just haven't even read it. But this is why I'm just trying to focus on the specific timeline here, right, because 2016 2017 2018 2019 I really buy that analysis, right. But in 2013 2013 was still the time that a lot of media companies like BuzzFeed, Mike, you know, stuff that even certain, you know, a16z were, you know, used to be a VC or investing yet. They still really saw themselves positive. So I'm just sort of, I think that it could be true that there's this negative relationship now. But I just don't think in 2013, the issue with that was driving the tech lash, sorry.

Unknown Speaker  7:50  
Yeah. So once I i think i, based on my conversations with a lot of these people kind of like where I think the Animus comes from, I actually think it's about cultural power. And I think that they don't think about it necessarily, in the same way that you know, we are about the business models. And yeah, it has become a lot more brazen, kind of in the ad revenue crash, we should remember in 2012 2013, was still not it was quite a profitable year for a lot of media companies. What I think they saw was the ascendance of these Titans, really in politics that are beginning to take on the role that they once had. So the anointing role in politics that Mark Zuckerberg could play such a key role in the 2012 presidential election when it used to be that they had almost a monopoly on the on the use of influence, if so to speak, like in warfare terms, and then all of a sudden, you have this competitor that just grew so dramatically, right, and only a four year period. I mean, Brock, Obama famously only sent one tweet in 2008, on the night of his election, and you think about how much influence Twitter had in 2012. I think it's much more about a power relationship than it is necessarily about business. But go Go ahead.

Balaji Srinivasan  8:58  
I think it's So to be clear, I do think it's all of the above. Absolutely. Its advertisers and its influence. But let me give a few key kind of points here just to help level set, right. Um, so I'm going to show you a graph, which shows that the revenue disruption and by that I absolutely agree that the cultural aspects like in terms of influence are as important or really more so than even the business aspects. But it's both, you know, in the sense of, like, when, when it sounds so much like any individual reporter is thinking consciously about the economics of any individual article, but globally, they're seeing, oh, these people that I went to school with, who they think of as being as smart as them, are now much richer than them. And you know, these redwood trees are just going up in you know, like, like technology in Silicon Valley. And meanwhile, budgets are being cut. You know, newsrooms are being shut down. local news is, is getting crushed. Their friends are out of jobs. It's harder and harder, and it's tougher for them, right. And so there's an Economic squeeze there that's happening. It's not so much about any individual line item. It's just the kind of global perspective of our industry shrinking and these folks is expanding. Now, of course, you know, the question of Oh, are they are they smarter, whatever, like, this is something where, you know, you're you're not gonna get lots of you're gonna get lots of different opinions on this. But certainly one concept is, you know, if you have somebody who's on six feet and stands next to Steph Curry, I think Steph Curry is six feet, actually, what's his actual height? Is he six feet is six, three, and we really need Jamie to

Unknown Speaker  10:33  
realize here Yeah,

Balaji Srinivasan  10:35  
yeah. Okay. So he is six, three, he's six, three. Okay, fine. All right. So let's say you know, you have a six foot three person who stands next to Steph Curry. So that person is certainly equal to Steph Curry in high terms. But that does not mean that person can shoot a basketball like Steph Curry can. Right, right. Clearly, you know, they're equal in one dimension, but perhaps, you know, there's a huge skill gap on the right. And so just the fact that you can carry on a conversation with somebody like, Drew Houston, doesn't mean you can program like drew Houston, who coded the first version of Dropbox in his laptop on a bus, right? And I think that is something which is a huge skills gap that is actually not perceptible or is not as easily perceptible, right. Um, and one of the things about that is it also means that we have a group of folks from around the world you know, tech tech is actually it genuinely is more global of a phenomenon than you know, kind of the East Coast media. It's it's much less nepotistic, you know, nobody inherited, Google or Facebook, you know, that wasn't that wasn't given to you. It wasn't handed down, right.

Unknown Speaker  11:34  
I went almost inherited, we work but

Balaji Srinivasan  11:39  
there's exceptions, right. But basically, like, you know, it's, I can name a few people who are second generation venture capitalists, for example, but it's pretty unusual, actually, relatively speaking, most of these folks are first gen, they really are new money, right. Whereas on the East Coast, people are impressed by, you know, the, the so and so family and you know, without naming in particular family, like inherited wealth is actually impressive there. And it's completely unimpressive in you know, in tech, right. And the West Coast, right. So that's kind of a third dimension is a culture clash, right? It is, it is influence. It is, um, you know, it is advertising revenue, but it's also culture, where you know, that, in many ways, actually, tech is like a fork of the East Coast. You know, how, like, a long time ago, Yale was like a fork of Harvard, you know, these seminarians went and they kind of forked it, right? If you go and look at the kinds of folks who are leaders in tech, right, um, you know, obviously gates, you know, left Harvard, right. Steve Jobs dropped out of college. Um, Zuckerberg left, Marc Andreessen left, Larry and Sergey left, you know, Stanford, right. Um, and, you know, you look at the folks who are predominant, and you know, Peter teal, he did graduate, but he abandoned the track of going and becoming a jurist, you know, at the Supreme Court, Paul Graham, you know, Harvard grad, but he also been an East Coast. If you look at the folks and this includes, by the way more recent things like you know, Daphne Kohler and Andrew Yang, who left Stanford to go into Coursera, Sebastian Thrun, who left to go and do the self driving car. Um, what you're essentially seeing is that folks who in another life would have been academics, jurists, in some cases, journalists, for example, Mike Moritz, you know, famously left and you know, journalism to go to Sequoia. More recently, a bunch of journalists have become VCs, right? So folks who would have been academics who would have been jurists like, like Peter teal, who would have been journalists, who would have been, actually nowadays activists, like somebody like Moxie marlinspike, who does signal would very much have been like any arguably, he still is he's an activist, but he uses logic. Yeah, exactly. We start but it uses technology to encrypt, right? So you have something where there's definitely a common thing there, right? There's a common thing of folks who, you know, work with letters and numbers who stare at a screen all day, who are fundamentally intellectually driven. Um, you know, one of the reasons that I think tech people can make a lot of money if they actually don't really care about it. In the sense of, you know, if you're offered a million dollars, who cares? $10 million? Who cares, right? It's only like when you start to get to like, really scientific notation numbers, that you're like, Okay, maybe I will take these winnings, and then I'll plow that into Mars, right, or I'll plow that into something bigger. You know, let me take a pit stop here and go for it.

Unknown Speaker  14:13  
I add something real quick to this, because it's interesting, because I think this whole point is getting at why I think the New York Times has been particularly sort of a thorn in the side of a certain part of Silicon Valley is because all this can be true, right? Sort of the meritocratic part, the legacy not really mattering, you know, new institutions versus these sort of old outmoded ones. But the New York Times has been so successful over the past seven or eight years, not because anyone learned how to code any better, not because they know they added like a GitHub like function, which you sort of talked about at night. It's not because you know, somehow the code is 10 x better but it was 10 years ago. It's because what they said was let's put a paywall in front of all of our stuff. Okay, we're not going to distribute information freely on the internet. We are going to leave into the fact that we're this old 200 year almost like legacy institution, but linen to the fact that we're owned by the salzburger family. So there's this I complicated share structure and was charged for our content. And then it gets used that legacy brand to create the daily right. So it's I get really annoyed when everyone sort of says, Oh, look at Joe Rogan. He's totally wrecked the legacy media. It's like the other big podcast in America is the New York Times his daily podcast. So there is this sort of legacy. There's this strength that comes from their legacy east coast. pneus. Now, I think the point that's fair, but I should add to this is that it's not quite clear that that is scalable to other media brands. Right. So it seems like you have the New York Times, you have the Wall Street Journal, you have the Washington Post, right, these sort of three East Coast Titans, but other sort of publishers who have tried to sort of use those legacy brand things haven't been as successful. But I think it's an interesting wrinkle to the dynamic you're talking about here.

Balaji Srinivasan  15:51  
Absolutely. These are all actually really good points. And the thing is, you know, to give the devil their do, they actually has your perspective, New York Times, Vijay, I'm being I'm being gracious here I've been I've tried to be I'm not to get, you know, to give them their due, like they were actually in very dire straits. In, you know, the early 2010s. And people were talking about, hey, are they going to sell just like, you know, the graham sold the post, I believe to Tibet is actually where they the owner says the times they sold.

Unknown Speaker  16:21  
Yeah, that's right.

Balaji Srinivasan  16:22  
Yeah. Okay. Yeah. So around that time, you know, there's a fork in history, where, you know, had Steve Jobs not died, or, you know, Zuck might have bought the times in 2011, right, that's a, that's a branch in history, which we don't know, you know, and, in many ways, their turnaround at the times, you know, a big part of it obviously, is, and if you've seen the graph, it almost exactly correspond to Trump's election, where their subscriber base just goes vertical like this, right? Um, so you know, now, if there's other graphs, if you've seen Paul Graham's think on this, where like, the words that are appear on the screen that basically

Unknown Speaker  16:57  
for listeners, Paul Graham correctly, this is incorrect biology. But yet Paul Graham points out that if you notice the New York Times tonal change, and it's writing, it starts becoming much more progressive, it's much more left leaning. So they're not really doing the whole sort of neutral paper record aesthetic. If that were ever sort of real or not, you could debate whether there was bias in the 50s and 60s, but at least there was an attempt. And what's interesting about Paul Graham's point is it's he sort of uses a metrics to prove this, right?

Balaji Srinivasan  17:24  
Yes, that's right. And, you know, that's how we like to, to do things, right is something numerical, which is indisputable, and you can at least anchor on that. You know what I mean? Um, I'm going to put up some graphs just to speaking of anchoring on numbers. All right, let me put up some graphs here just to okay. Okay, can you see the screen? All right?

Unknown Speaker  17:45  
Yes, yeah.

Balaji Srinivasan  17:47  
All right. So this is a graph that shows, basically, um, you know, that this is going into 2014. By the way, blue is newspaper print revenue. And you can see it hits its peak around, you know, the year 2000. It's kind of like flat ish for a while, right, basically, over the course the 2000s. And Google is growing, it's growing. But then there's a total collapse after the financial crisis, right? And it's just like, Rose through a floor. Like I mean, any industry that's dropping like 70 80%, like this is crazy, going from 60 something billion down to like 20. Right? So it's just catastrophic collapse of newspaper revenue, and then digital isn't, you know, it's coming, but it's not giving them that much, right. And in the meantime, boom, here comes Google. And here comes Facebook. Right? And this is the kind of environment where, you know, yeah, like if it was it was $1, or $2. It's one thing when you're talking about the catastrophic collapse of one industry and the meteoric growth of another. Yes, I do think the business aspects mattered, right? So that just gives right some anchoring on it, right. So just to give everybody an idea of it just for people who are listening at home, because I want to make sure they can visualize this. It's basically looking at an upward graph of newspaper and AD, newspaper print revenue, which peaks at 67 billion around the year 2000. And then has a drop, which isn't that dramatic down to like the mid 50s. And then at that point, has a precipitous drop over the next like, 20 years down to 16. Point 4 billion. I'm thinking that what is that? 2013? Yeah, exact same time. Right. Go ahead. Yeah, that's it. So you can google newspaper advertising revenue, adjusted for inflation? 1952 2014. Right. And so this is, this is something where I'm, you know, when economics contracts, there's just less opportunity for everybody, right? Everybody suddenly feels like they need to, they're not as charitable, right? They have to dunk on somebody else for you know, likes or our teas or faves to scramble to the top of an ever, you know, narrowing you know, pyramid and so on, right. And this is before digital started working. So it's a real, you know, time for them. Then, you know, what was the strategy? Well, I'll show us a couple of things. One is this is Paul Graham's tweet. Okay, um, near times, word usage frequency 1972. In 2018, and without commenting on any particular word, you can see a bunch of things start spiking on, you know, and they start spiking really kind of 2013 right after that right. Now, one way of thinking about this is just from a neutral standpoint, if you're a restaurant, and you need to juice sales, well, you might start spiking sugar into more of your food. Right? That is that is shown to actually make people rate the food more highly, and so on, even if,

Unknown Speaker  20:30  
yeah, it's that sort of a restaurant right now. But if anyone's taking notes for next year, maybe you can think about it.

Balaji Srinivasan  20:36  
Well, so I believe there have been, you know, I may be misremembering this, but I believe that there have been studies on this with like fruit yogurt, where they found that sugaring it more and more just improved sales and customer satisfaction. But of course, that's like, lacing it with an addictive drug. Right. And what happens is, you have a classic externality where, um, you know, the population is getting fat and getting diabetes and obesity. And you're just seeing that just explode in the US for the last 30 years. Have you seen? Have you guys ever seen the graph of that, by the way?

Unknown Speaker  21:07  
Yes, of course. Right. Yeah.

Balaji Srinivasan  21:08  
Oh, you haven't seen it? Okay. Yeah, the obesity GIF is worth looking at. Okay. I've seen this one. If you if you've never seen this, like it was crazy, even you know, a few years ago, this was like seven years ago. But here. Your new screenshare again?

Unknown Speaker  21:23  
Yes, it's near on

Balaji Srinivasan  21:24  
its I'm still doing it. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. So watch the country get fatter and one animated map. And look at this. This is insane.

Unknown Speaker  21:30  
Right? Like, right, we're watching the country basically just go orders of magnitude larger from 1988. between what is that? 2010. And I'm sure it's only just gotten worse. In the last it's, it's only gotten worse and worse in the last year, because we're all stuck in a home and I bet you people are not.

Balaji Srinivasan  21:47  
That's exactly right. So by analogy to this, were something that was good for a food Corporation was bad for America, right? It's quite possible that the spiking and this is on all sides. By the way, I certainly NYT is one here where we've got the numbers, but um, people spiking their social media feeds with more and more, you know, literally triggering words, right? Um, that you know, if we could instrument ourselves instrument our bodies and actually see the spikes, right, just to give you a sense of what I mean by that to see the spikes. So glucose

Unknown Speaker  22:27  
I'm so Balaji searching for glucose, blood, blood, blood in cookies, and we're looking for Yes, sir. For what is that? That's right, is Yeah, that's right. So for our listening,

Unknown Speaker  22:38  
go ahead. Sasha is gonna have a fun time editing. Yeah.

Balaji Srinivasan  22:42  
Yeah, that's right. Well, I guess I think in slides or whatever,

Unknown Speaker  22:45  
no, no, no, it's good. It's good, quick, quick, it's more visual I BB ology. This is actually cool, though, because we're putting this on YouTube. And we're putting this on, you know, Apple podcasts and Spotify as well, too. So I think we're sort of building different products here. And that's a good example of how, you know, to tech show for a second, we can sort of see how you know, these different tech products and make it so that we can try things in different ways that we couldn't have done before, obviously,

Balaji Srinivasan  23:07  
I think that's right. Um, and I think I should think about the right way of doing something that's cross platform. But let me at least describe what we're seeing here. Right? If you look at like, Israel, science info.com. I don't know the website. But I know this study. It's reproducing A study from Iran, Seagal and and Company, which basically shows on you know, you can give different people bananas and cookies, and watch their blood glucose, visibly spike and then come down over time. Okay, and the point of this is basically, first different people respond in different ways to these two things. But both of these things, do you know, like spike glucose in different people, right? What's the point? If and when we can actually instrument your physiology? Right, which I think you can actually there's folks are measuring dopamine. And so if we can get even better at it, like, like, really looking at your emotions, your fight or flight response, and so on. Um, I have a feeling that it's going to show that the combination of social media and legacy media over the last six years has is is just like an addictive thing, just like sugar, where we're just juicing ourselves every day with these trigger words and situations, you know, people fighting people screaming at each other, etc. And it's addictive in a weird way, just like, I'm just like sugar is, but it's bad for you. And only when we can actually see the metrics of that and see what that's doing to your psychology and to your biology. But we realized that, oh, this was this massive externality. And by the way, I put a lot of blame on tech here, as well, please, please know that.

Unknown Speaker  24:37  
Well, that's actually one thing. That's one thing that I appreciate, really about the problems that that you're laying out here, which is that it is not just a product of the times, right? It's like there's this character like basileus New York Times it's like no, no, this is about something, you know, consolidation of media, that large growth of these three particular brands and exacerbated by some of these larger tech companies, which kind of themselves To the macro thesis of what I think you were about to get out here, and I want to make sure we channel and make it very clear, yes. For the audience is this is your thing, decentralization not just of media, but of all aspects of this of technology and media. So can you lay that out for the audience?

Unknown Speaker  25:17  
Absolutely. And one involves you one last thing to add to that too. You referenced decentralization at the start of the episode, can you can you just explain what decentralization is as like a theory as like, an actual like idea before we get into the media part of it?

Balaji Srinivasan  25:31  
Absolutely. So, um, here's one way of thinking about it just all started from kind of a political philosophy level, which is maybe congenial to your audience and then go to a technology level. So, you know, some, some political factions are very concerned with inequality of wealth, right. Others are very concerned with centralized power, like abuse of power by the state. And if you actually think about it, these are not even though they're voiced by different groups. They're, they're not completely independent concerns, right? centralized power or wealth can both be abused and you know, the sort of faction or you know, intellectual lineage, whatever that I come from, is really the the crypto community which really stands against all concentrations of power, whether legacy or new cryptocurrency

Unknown Speaker  26:15  
that's cryptocurrency cryptocurrency, medical just coast West Coast audience.

Balaji Srinivasan  26:20  
Yeah, sorry about that. Yeah. All right. So expand my acronyms, please, whenever I'm being arcane, um, but yeah, absolutely. I mean, I think that, um, you know, I may rank order, and I'll explain what I mean by this. I may rank order Bitcoin over Facebook over MIT. But I'm happy to work with somebody who would rank order Bitcoin over MIT over Facebook. Um, what I mean by that is basically, you know, anybody say those three are not comparable, what do you mean by that? Right? And one way of thinking about it is, there's a good book called The truth machine. Okay. It's actually by Paul vigna. And Michael Casey, former Wall Street Journal journalist, actually vigna still at the Wall Street Journal. And it gives an angle on Bitcoin that I don't think most people outside the space really think about too much. Which is, it is actually a, an algorithm and a set of data structures for achieving truth in a decentralized adversarial environment. Okay, and what do I mean, I'm using this word decentralized, but let me let me explain. Bitcoin is basically a database of money. And anybody around the world can read from that database, determine who has money, and anybody with a little bit of Bitcoin can write to that database to transfer Bitcoin to somebody else. Okay? Now, the obvious thing about this is, well, why don't I just write myself a million dollars worth of Bitcoin. And the whole thing has been set up with many different overlapping incentives and security mechanisms to prevent you from doing that, to make it cost billions of dollars to acquire a million dollars of Bitcoin by by simply writing yourself some Bitcoin, okay? The point being that whether you're American or Turkish, or Japanese, or Indian or Brazilian, you have the same view of the Bitcoin blockchain as everybody else. You have global truth, and not global truth about, you know, the spots of a butterfly or something that arguably isn't important. You have global truth over the most contentious thing out there, which is property, right? 100 billion dollars is protected by an algorithm instead of data structures. And there's nothing that stops it from getting to 1,000,000,000,010 trillion dollars, right? There's nothing that stops that from extending not just from BTC, to protecting cash, stocks, bonds, commodities, property of all kinds, right. And, you know, that includes, by the way, the, on the keys to your home, or to your car, any kind of, you know, good like your diploma or something like that, any scarce good of any kind that you can think of can be protected by basically modifications of the circle blockchain technology, right. And this actually gets really fundamental, you go back to Locke, and you talk about, you know, the state's justification, in part being as a protector of property rights, right? Well, we now have a new mechanism for doing that. And, you know, doing that across borders. So, so why do I bring that up? Well, uh, everything that people are talking about today is the breakdown of truth. You know, you have all these groups, these tribes, and they don't trust each other, and so on. But, you know, we're already seeing kind of the solution coming up even that people don't really understand that it's the solution. The solution and part is going to be on these these, you know, crypto technologies. And more specifically, let me describe kind of one vision of where I see this decentralized media future and they'll attack it from a different direction. One vision of the future is what I call Oracle's and advocates. Okay, so, first, let me describe what an Oracle is. Um, you can google the term crypto Oracle or you know, cryptocurrency, Oracle or blockchain Oracle. But But let me give an analogy to explain what that is. Okay, so as you're aware, many sports articles today are wrappers around box scores. Right? You know, basically, it's color commentary on top of the box score, you know, um, many financial articles are wrappers around tickers. You know, some some stock goes up some suckers down,

Unknown Speaker  30:18  
Jones goes up Dow Jones dow futures down 600, and then some copy and pasted commentary down the bottom.

Balaji Srinivasan  30:24  
Exactly. That's right. And and you can you can craft a story around this and this is a fair fraction. I mean, I'm not saying it's 50%. But it's a good chunk of financial journalism, right. Um, and then third, a lot of political journalism nowadays is wrappers around tweets, right. So in all three cases, you have a fundamental numerical data structure, whether it's a box score, or more generally a play by play, right, the box score is just the roll up of it at the final time, but you could have, you know, play by play thing as well, right? So you have a numerical data structure, a feed of events, right, and it's timestamp. And then you have a verbal layer on top of that, right? Whether it's Bach scores, or its tickers or its or its tweets. And in each case, what we're sort of taking for granted there is that that feed of events is on has not been falsified. Right, you sort of take this for granted. But when you cite a tweet on twitter.com, you assume Twitter has not edited it. Right. And one of the things that gives you is it tells you who said what, when, and often were in terms of the you know, they put their location timestamp on it, right? The context often gives you Why? And, you know, you might even get the devices Twitter for iPhone or Android. That's the how, right? So who, what, when, where, why, and to some extent, how, and that's the six questions a journalist, right. So it's like the micro. I mean, this is why journalists are in part by journalists are always on Twitter, is that it used to be difficult to get people on the record. And now you're just drowning in quotations from everybody. Everybody's trying to be as witty as possible. And, you know, you can just go through all this to get a picture of somebody's head. It's actually amazing from from that standpoint, but it's also open sourced a huge amount of what used to be very difficult to get, right. I mean, I can kind of interview Alon by reading 1000 of his tweets and actually get a decent sense of what's in this person's head, right? You sort of open source of something that used to be actually very difficult. Most people cannot get access to this person to even hear their thoughts, you know, even even 2030 years ago, right? So what if we extend this right? So it's not just fields of sports scores and ticker symbols and tweets, but feeds of everything? Okay, you have feeds of Coronavirus stats, you have feeds of weather statistics, right? You have feeds of real estate trades, you know, and actually all of these already exists, right? You know, you've seen these numbers, you know, whether it's COVID tracking for the, for the COVID stuff, right? Or Zillow for the real estate of the all these feeds exists or just siloed right now. Okay. Here's the novel thing, which you may not have heard of. crypto people are working on taking every single one of those kinds of feeds, and one by one putting them onto a blockchain, which will timestamp them and make it very difficult to change them right. Now, what that means is, you know, you'll say this entity on on June 22 2020, said that there were 1000 coronavirus deaths in this country. It doesn't say that that was true. What it does say is very, very hard to falsify way that this entity said this at this time. Okay, it's kind of like, you know, anybody can tweet anything, you can't necessarily say whether it's true, but you can say that this person was tweeted at this time with this context, etc. From this look exactly. Right. That's right. So at least you can come to truth claims on the metadata, right? Which is something right, that's actually agreeing in an adversarial environment, the numbers allow us to agree, we may not think what they said is true or false, but at least they said it at that time. And this person, and this was, you know, like perhaps where they said it, we trust Twitter to give us the correct location. Right. Okay. So you generalize this to thousands and 10s of thousands of fields and why? Because on each of these fields, people are setting up prediction markets. Okay, so I've RTN something on this, you can look at something called claros, KL e r o s. That is a decentralized court. And again, I'm going to come back and just define this term decentralized in a bit, but I'm just let let me let me get

Unknown Speaker  34:16  
your Yeah, spell out.

Balaji Srinivasan  34:18  
Exactly. I'll do it by usage first, and then Okay, so claros is really cool. Um, I have no stake in it or anything like that. I've just argued some stuff on it. So what it is is essentially something where folks are betting in these prediction markets, and one person bet like there is going to be more than 1000 coronavirus deaths in this country and their person bet less and they they're betting pseudonymously. So, you know, nobody can attack their character or for you know, oh my god, you're betting on something so morbid or so on the premise, at least from a moral standpoint is you're getting better information out of this right? In the sense of, you know, like, if you could predict the number of deaths, you might be able to plan around that they showed a track record of predicting better than that would actually be useful, even if it seems ghosts to bet on something like that, right? So I personally am not betting on these things, but I understand the motivation to to bet on them. Okay. Just to just to just to put a bit in case your viewers claimer out there this way. Exactly. That's right. That's right. Okay. Point basically, is that some outlets reported fewer than 1000 deaths, and some report reported more. So there was a dispute. And that dispute is being actually resolved by a decentralized court where both sides are making their case as to which outlets should be trusted, okay. And you now have a meta layer of education over the raw facts that are going into news reports and so on around the world, right? And what is incentivizing that education, and that micro scrutiny of individual numbers, which are really important, by the way, right? Those numbers often just go without dispute into all kinds of things, then people go back and find out Oh, there's a bug or an error here. You know, whenever you've diligence, anything, you probably found something like that. Right? Right. So now we actually have a market mechanism to diligence raw numbers of all these different fields in the world, because basically, people are doing a Kentucky Derby like betting ring on them, right. And now what this does, by the way, if you've ever heard of the concept of future marquee, right, and like prediction markets for predicting the future, this actually turns it on its head, where you may or may not get signal out of the prediction markets. But where you do get signal is from the raw facts and the feed. Right? Even if prediction markets themselves are not that great in terms of forecasting the future. The debates and the fights over them, are actually useful for educating what was true at that time for basically getting these cryptographic feeds. Even if preach marks in sales, or breakeven. These feeds are extraordinarily valuable in their own right, because they give you digital history.

Unknown Speaker  36:39  
Right. Let me jump in there just a bit. Because this presumes I think that the central problem in our media in the New York Times and all this is objective truth, right, like objectively verifiable data. And there's massive benefit absolutely, to having a market mechanism which can determine the objective number of people that have not died from COVID-19. But the issue that I think that you have, I have Marshall has and with many of our media coverage today is more about subjective matters, right? So it's about the framing of a headline about Uber versus the framing of a headline about, let's say, a different company about Johnson and Johnson, which is not a tech company about a way that we cover something and I want to, you know, bring it I was bringing Noam Chomsky, who I think is one of the most apt observers on the media. I wrote this so many decades ago, and he basically manufactured consent. So to just summarize the quote, essentially, what he said was, what they choose not to show you is actually more important than what they choose to show you. Now, I don't know how a blockchain mechanisms could basically correct for a subjective bias in the way that we cover. So yeah, factoring in, you're gonna go ahead.

Unknown Speaker  37:52  
And I just want i want i want to build on that real quick. Because these are, I think, I think this is really interesting. I think it's key to sort of define the problem, right? So like, if we let's pretend that you know, we're launching a startup here, and we're trying to like identify a problem that we're trying to solve in media. You said earlier that the problem and meet that the problem with truth in media, I think that I sort of disagree with that in the sense that I don't think the media lies too much about objective things very often. And oftentimes, if there is an incorrect fact, it's verifiable, it's quickly correct enough. There are narratives that are complicated, right? So like you, yourself, have seen the issue of people saying it's just the flu, and then like, they don't correct the record afterwards. I put that in the category sort of Subjective Truth. But for example, if I were to write in, let's say, we Sargon I launched the realignment, you know, publication if we were to write one day 10 people in DC data Coronavirus, but it turns out after the facts reveal that it was 20 people will go back and fix that. And that's that's always sort of dealt with the bigger issue though, but I sort of see in media is that people don't trust the realignment publication at all right? The issue in media is that you don't trust recode it's not that you don't think that recode is the re lying about Coronavirus, death numbers. It's just that you think that recode and Kara Swisher in the broader sort of box set of people are dishonest and aggressive and hate tech that blockchain is

Balaji Srinivasan  39:20  
going well let me look it's a big organization but go ahead

Unknown Speaker  39:24  
is the idea of recode I'll give you my thought alluding that like the broader thing there

Unknown Speaker  39:28  
which here is like COVID debts right? Cool.

Balaji Srinivasan  39:32  
Okay, I got I got I got to respond because I've got a bunch of things on the stack. Okay.

Unknown Speaker  39:38  
Fine, I'm saying

Balaji Srinivasan  39:39  
person man, we'll move car TV. Okay, got it. Alright, so um, okay, so basically uh, let me let me respond first to soccer's and then to marshals Okay, so who cares about facts, right, raw facts? Um, well, first, The New York Times markets itself as the truth capital T. That is their marketing campaign, right? This is also why they're disincentivized to run corrections, because every correction is kind of backing down, right? The same pathology, by the way, it's not unique to them. It's also found in academia, where a retraction or correction is a black mark on your CV. This is very distinct from for example, in the open source community where, um, if you have public issues, then you know, that's that's, that's a sign of a healthy project, right, like edits and so on are our smoker

Unknown Speaker  40:25  
pedia and those sort of places. Yeah,

Balaji Srinivasan  40:27  
yeah, exactly. Like it, like a heavily edited thing is often a signal of a project's health, not its frailty, right? It shows it can accommodate error, it can update and so on and so forth. Right. So, so number one is they definitely do market themselves as the capital teacher. And indeed, a significant part of their influence comes from people looking at them as, quote, the highest source of truth. Just a recent example is this whole UFO thing, right? Um, you know, even folks who I who I like, we're like, well, maybe it's now true, because in your time said it, now, it's like, you know, there's there's been a lot of gentlemen amnesia, have you heard that term? No, go ahead. Oh, you haven't? Okay. That's it. That's term you should I'm gonna I'm gonna quote it to you. Okay. This is never been on your show, gentlemen, amnesia, by Michael Crichton, right, who's now you know, the late microcredit and famous author,

Unknown Speaker  41:15  
Dr. Park.

Balaji Srinivasan  41:16  
Yeah. So briefly stated, The gentleman and Nisha effect is as follows. You open the newspaper to an article on some subject, you know, well, in Murray gentleman's case, physics Mirjam as a Nobel laureate in physics, in mind, meaning microcredit and showbusiness. You read the article and see the journalist has absolutely no understanding of the factual issues. Often the article is so wrong, it actually presents a story backward, reversing cause and effect. I call these the wet Street, wet streets caused rain stories, papers, fold them, in any case, you read with exaggeration or amusement the multiple errors in the story and then turn the page national or international affairs and read as if the rest of the newspaper is somehow more accurate about Palestine than the baloney you just read. You turn the page and forget what you know. So now, the critical thing is here, that opening sentence, you open the newspaper to an article on some subject, you know, well, okay, so he's not just trashing, you know, journalists for the sake of trashing. He's saying that he has disciplinary expertise in a matter, and is able to independently diligence and reproduce the claims in the article and finds them wanting, whether by omission of facts, or making incorrect deductions or whatever, right? That is a very specific kind of critique. And it's not like, what I consider it dumb to be like, Oh, it's all fake news or whatever. It's, it's different when you say, a disciplinary expert in this area, would find these errors in the writing, right? Yes. Now, the thing about the internet is you can summon the gentleman's of every discipline, in theory, right? That's like a new thing. You know, no, no writer, no generalist writer can ever know, more than, you know, 1000 specialists in bioinformatics on COVID, or 1000, specialist in physics on physics, right? It's just not possible. And it's no, you know, insult to that, that writer. What's my point? The point is that it's not just a binary of everything that appears is true, or they're intentionally lying to us. There's huge swathes of things where they don't know, or they tried and they got it wrong. Or there was sort of like a tribal thing to shade the facts and like A Midsummer so there, there's a whole spectrum of things in the middle there. Right. And, you know, I I'm not, you know, like, you can kind of go first order, second order, third order and the stuff like first order Sure, like naive, oh, the truth matters, right? second order is where I think a lot of people are today, which is truth doesn't matter. It's all tribal and so on. Right? Third Order is the truth matters for serious decision makers. Okay, if you're allocating resources, okay, if you are, you know, for example, I'll give you a classic example from earlier this year. Corona, right. Um, one one really important thing, and I didn't mention this earlier, but I should one really important thing that shapes how tech people read the press, is we are all used to examples where the news report wasn't like, you know, 50% off or something, but it's 1000 x off. Okay? For example, bitcoins gonna die. No Bitcoin goes to 10,000 right. Coronavirus is contained no actually it's it goes to you know, like, like millions of people, right? Um, here's a few other headlines I just pulled up here. 2002 NYT, Google's toughest search is for a business model. 2013 courts, by Facebook will never make a significant profit.

27 June 2000, Amazon dot bomb how the internet's biggest success story turned sour, right? In each of these cases, you're not talking about like 50% off, you're talking about like a, I mean, they researched it. They wrote whatever they wrote, but there were 1000 next off from what actually happened, and you couldn't just read their stuff and discount it because, you know, again, first order is just read it and believe it. second order is I'm going to read this and take it with a grain of salt because I know where they're coming from. Third Order is you're like they know nothing. I know. Nothing until I have diligence and reproduce this for myself. Right up. That's the attitude of a scientist towards the scientific paper. You know, interestingly, we're actually more skeptical of a lot of the scientific reporting on Corona. Because we kind of know, see, scientists are flawed in many ways, don't get me wrong, right. But But scientists do include references for every single thing. They're saying, they at least make a nod towards empirical reproducibility. It's not considered like some insult to try to go and reproduce their their work, usually, okay, I'm not saying all some of them do get insulted by it. But they try to, you know, give raw data. And fundamentally, the most important thing is that the judge of whether something scientific is true is not really peer review. It's independent replication. Right? And so that's kind of this is where I say like third order, right? There is the truth really does matter to serious decision makers. Coming back to the February thing, the reason Corona was important is on hundreds and hundreds of companies that I knew about, had to figure out whether they were going to remote work or not, right, like, literally billions of dollars of capital had to be allocated based on, you know, was this thing real or not? Right. Not to mention, obviously, like all the health decisions that need to be made, you know, because you're making decisions. It's not just money, obviously, it is, it's the health and livelihoods of your employees and so on. Right. On right. The reason I say that, as a as a second thing is usually most of these informational errors in the press just cost you money. This one could actually have cost you your life, which put it up to another level. And yet we haven't seen corrections or retractions. It's just kind of reached on by Quick, quick thing. No, because

Unknown Speaker  46:35  
I, I do feel we need to advocate for our colleagues in the press, I think if we're looking because raw citizen journalists, so technically, we're all colleagues here, right galaxy. So I think, in most of the examples you cited, those are opinion analysis pieces, right? So for example, the 2000, Amazon dot bomb, when you're referencing, right, that's in the middle of the.com crash, that's an analyst whose job it is, is to make predictions, but that's not like factual basis things, right? Like, if you're looking at, you know, the Facebook article in 2013. Right, that's, that's a case where a analyst was offering an opinion call, and that's like laced, but that's not like reporting. So for example, what's talking about another company that's been written a lot of trouble lately? kwibi. So kwibi, for example, is a company you know, it raised, you know, billions of dollars of funding. It's gotten all these sort of really negative press pieces about it. But those press pieces aren't making a claim of truth. They're just making a claim of analysis. So for example, there is that big New York Times kwibi piece that came out in May where it had Jeffrey Katzenberg, saying, quote, in the interview, I think everything that's gone wrong of kwibi was because of

Balaji Srinivasan  47:45  
the Coronavirus. I saw that.

Unknown Speaker  47:47  
Everyone saw that, right? Because but the point, the point there is that like it could turn out that everything with kwibi will turn around. And we're actually for realignment listeners, we're actually going to cover kwibi a little later next month. So quick note for that. But maybe if everything turns around acquittee, and let's say December 2021, because they start with $700 million in the bank, that doesn't make that New York time piece predicting query was going to do poorly and accurate. So how does that fit into your framework here?

Unknown Speaker  48:14  
So so I think that

Balaji Srinivasan  48:16  
Yeah, okay. Well, let me let me respond to that quickly before. So the thing is that this stuff is, it's presented in the passive voice, right? It's often presented as a way to drive a conclusion, as opposed to merely being neutral reporting, right? In many ways, you know, when you talk about impact journalism, the point is actually cause a change in the world not merely to report yet right? Not merely to be a quote, a stenographer, but But even though you're reporting passively, you inject adjectives, you pepper it, you flavor it, such that it's kind of like what I call the disassembled bomb theory of journalism, right? Where you give a dissemble bomb to the reader, and you have just enough distance where you know exactly the reaction, it's going to evoke in the readers head, they're going to put the bomb, like, ah, I hate that guy, go get him, right. But you kind of maintain some degree of passive distancing, or whatever it and I think, you know, that's one aspect where many of these articles are written by people who wanted these companies to fail. They weren't just, you know, like neutral observers, or they're trying to drive an outcome. But even let's say that some of that was just, you know, commentary and yeah, you can get it wrong. Get it, right. Here's the thing, like only some, you know, like, crazy guy who goes and does the research. Eight years later, or seven years later, it's like, ah, see, they were wrong. That's their accountability mechanism. It's only

Unknown Speaker  49:31  
going to harness biology.

Balaji Srinivasan  49:32  
Yeah, exactly. Only some lunatic you know, like me, whatever, right? Who do that? Because VCs are kept accountable, you know, angel investor, you're kept count by your portfolio. The problem here is you get the clicks today, and the reputational cost. Seven years later, who remembers that? You said Facebook would never make a profit, right? Sure. Facebook took the damage then you got the clicks in but the there's no nothing catches up with you, right. So that's a real that's another externality. It's like, you know, Like putting the dope mean, you know, juicing things into the, into the feed. It is something where, especially if you're marketing yourself as the truth, you know, like it again, it's a totally different thing if it's like, oh, this is just a comment by some person, right. When you're like the truth. You need to actually hold oneself accountable. Right. Okay, go ahead. Sorry, we're gonna say,

Unknown Speaker  50:21  
well, so I think that's I think that's a very important point. But kind of what I was getting at earlier about omission was about let's take the perfect example of the riots or the protests and all that plus Coronavirus. You basically had public health experts and the papers and many others just completely obfuscate that there could have been any relationship whatsoever between that and a spike in Coronavirus stats, in what way would and decentralization made it so that Yeah, even on Twitter, all of that, you know, we can all go out and tweet and be like, this is ridiculous hypocrisy, etc. But that doesn't mean that we can force the organs with mass influence in this country, CNN, New York Times msnbc to acknowledge that right. So if we can't get these people to acknowledge or to even report verifiable facts, and then even then to bring on something somebody like an expert who's willing to say that, again, it's a sin of omission and a framing rather than a sin of not reporting the increase so like, right now they're like, Oh, Coronavirus, debts are out of control, and XY and Z. And it's all because of Governor's reopening. And I think that there's a lot to be said about that. But I haven't seen even the same amount of accountability, as you're saying, for the you know, for the protest movement, and and much of that, so how does that fit into a verifiable blockchain framework? So

Balaji Srinivasan  51:41  
I'm gonna come to that. But one thing I want to do is, um, you know, I want to praise definitely, they're worse. You're absolutely right. I think generally, there were some folks, you know, Connor at the Atlantic, Alexis, and you're on Yeah, the Atlantic. Yeah. Dan diamond at Politico. They did point out that, of course, you need masks. Of course, you need all the search stuff, but you also need to avoid large gatherings and you know, Coronavirus, doesn't care how, you know, righteous, your causes, it will spread there, right. And, you know, like clockwork, like, you know, this spike happened basically, like about three weeks later. Um, and so it's this, it's this thing where, you know, there were some folks who were smart and courageous, and they put put out the right content. The problem is that that message isn't getting amplified. Right, the incentive structure, isn't there, like society signal amplification mechanism is broken. Um, you know, in tech, basically, if you make a right bet, that is against the grain, but it's really right, you're rewarded 1000 x right?

Unknown Speaker  52:39  
earlier. That's the theory of venture capital. And that's it. I mean,

Balaji Srinivasan  52:43  
look, it doesn't always work. I mean, I guess

Unknown Speaker  52:45  
that's the ideal. That's the point is, that's the business that

Unknown Speaker  52:48  
that's the ideal. I mean, that's funny, though, because in media just quickly, it's like, if you, you know, make the wrong call on the Iraq War, or you get you make the wrong call on many of these other things. in DC, you get rewarded for it. These people are now msnbc contributors, these people are now people who are very famous. And if you're a dissenting voice, by and large, you're not more famous as a result. So clearly, that system is broken.

Unknown Speaker  53:09  
That's exactly right. And, and, and, and just

Unknown Speaker  53:11  
just to build on that, because I see Balaji have a couple of I think saagar I think that's like so interesting. But by the way, though, and this is where we get into sort of like making decentralized media more real for people, there actually is a system that's emerging, which can reward people for being right. So let's think of like Matt Taibbi. Right. So like Matt Taibbi, someone who was very aggressive on pushing back against the worst excesses of like Rachel Maddow, Russia gate crap, just like the worst msnbc clickbait cable news, really bad faith, like the stuff is totally incorrect. You know, in the past, it would have been unclear, but you can sort of be rewarded for that. And now, because of substack, what he can do is he can leave the Rolling Stone, I know, he still does this podcast at Rolling Stone, but he gets credit substack and charge money. It's very, very marketed towards Hey, on this left guy who tells it like it is who is going to sort of be rewarded for that. So that's something that if you know, if you if you were someone on the left or the right, who critiqued sort of the rush to the Iraq War In 2003, there is no way that you could be financially or you can do a blog, but like that wasn't monetized to the same degree. So I think that's a good example, we're seeing this with, you know, Andrew salvo Andrew. So then Mike Yarmuth, there's like this whole cohort of substack people who in previous areas would have been stuck in these big centralized institutions. But this goes to your point about the decentralized model, they can now do that. So I know, that's something you're very supportive

Balaji Srinivasan  54:31  
of. Absolutely. I mean, actually, it's so it's funny. decentralized media is a term that you can slice from about 15 different directions. And I may, you know, include like, like a bunch of mini essays on this because it's actually it's kind of a rich concept, but one of them is exactly what you're talking about, where you you basically, um, you know, you take apart a media Corporation, and you have the top folks there, once they are all individual personal media corporations. write their own voice. You know, it's basically that's a fusion of the concept of media Corporation and the concept of influence, right? The personal media Corporation. substack is like v one of that, then we're going to start getting dynamic newspapers, you know, like, basically, like combinations of these individuals, you know, pulled together. I think some

Unknown Speaker  55:17  
quick, quick pushback, right? Like, yep, isn't a dynamic newspaper, just centralization again, right. This is why this stuff is so interesting to me. Because, you know, if you've read your Tim Wu, which I think you have, to a certain degree, you know, his basic thesis on any sort of dispersion of information as we go through these cycles, right? So you have the cable bundle, and then that turns into a bunch of streaming services, and then they come back together again, if all these little sub stacks start bundling together again, what's starting to happen? How's it not any different than the previously centralized media with just a little more writer control? I'm curious, we should look at that dynamic.

Balaji Srinivasan  55:49  
Yeah. So what I think is, um, I've have two ways of talking about that. You know, if you're the same by a, I think it's either Jim Barksdale, or Jim Clark, but the only two ways to make money in business are unbundling and bundling. Right? But, but there's another way of thinking about it, which is, all progress happens along the z axis, okay. So for example, it at, let's say, you know, 12 volt, one, imagine a clock right tober one on, you know, somebody is frustrated with some, you know, existing megacorp, they leave, they strike out on their own, right, they start getting some traction, if if they're fortunate and hardworking. And then by three o'clock, you know, they actually start to get some employees and so on. by six o'clock, they're in their spring, they're rising, they're, you know, the next big thing, right, bye, bye Around this time, there's a crucial change that has happened, where they switch from the, the burn rate to the bus number becoming the most important thing, that is to say, early in the life of the company, every single person must be incredibly, you know, iconic, they have to pull their own weight, they have to be totally unique. Because you have to minimize your burn, you need these exceptional, exceptional people. At a certain point, maybe when the clock ticks over past six, the bus number becomes more important, which is you now have a multicellular organism. And if any one person is not replaceable, you haven't done your job to see Yeah, that's a huge shift, where you go from recruiting a team of totally irreplaceable people to once you have a stable business model that's really throwing out the cash, you have to switch it to a bus number model, because now, if you have 200, people in any one of them leaving will kill the company, you're actually not doing your job. So you have to move to a kind of a bureaucrat ization, a an impersonal ization of the company where you put more into processes more into code, you start taking away individual initiative to make the organism more robust. This transition is not one that most people see unless they've actually been a manager that's gone through the cycle, right? With that results in is that by around 9pm, you have an organization that started to get bureaucratic, it started to become you know deadening of human initiative. And then by about 12 o'clock, someone leaves and goes, goes and does their new thing right now, right? That's like an interesting cycle of life, you know, sort of sort of thing. And you might say, Well, did we land up where we were, we came. But I think one way to think about that is you have, you know, Fairchild Semiconductor, and then you have, like, you know, the traitorous eight. Actually, maybe I'm getting that wrong, historically. But, um, Fairchild proceed, you had a semiconductor company, and then you had the traitor shape come out of that. And then you had more companies come out of that, and so on. So it's like a corkscrew turning up, right? Even though it didn't happen quite this way. It wasn't like the founders of one company came from the next. But you did have, for example, the founder of Salesforce came out of Oracle. Right. And then founders of other companies have come out of Salesforce. And you have this courtroom where it's like, IBM, and then Microsoft, right? And apple. And then you have Google, and then you have Facebook. And then you have I think crypto, which is actually what's coming after Facebook, you know, most people don't really don't really see that yet. Um, but each turn, you're actually progressing, even if it seems like you've come back in the same spot. So that's my, that's my answer to you Marshall is, you know, you do actually overall make progress even if it seems like a loop.

Unknown Speaker  58:56  
So I just want before Balaji, we asked people for sort of questions they wanted to ask you before we did this, and everyone wants your thoughts on geopolitics in India, before we transition there, I just want to do my last word on this topic. I want to make a prediction that hopefully in five years, we can debate on post blockchain, what I think is going to happen with all these newsletters or individual writers are, they're going to they're going to go out on their own people are going to discover pretty quickly, but it's actually super hard to build a business by oneself. Because, you know, decentralization has certain advantages. The centralization has certain other advantages, right? sort of the the editor, the marketing people Sargon I love this quote, where a newsletter writer Jacob Donnelly, pointed out that when he created his newsletter, which is very excellent, by the way, three fourths of the work he does is actually marketing. It's not even the writing part. So there's gonna be people who are going to come in and say, Hey, like, guess what, Jacob will handle your marketing, you just write all day. So what I think is going to happen is the new york times as they've already been doing in other verticals, so for example, they just bought cereal this week who created cereal, they're buying other things. I think they are going to start acquiring newsletters. So that's how the decentralization process is going to go, they're going to offer people much more sort of editorial control. But I really just think that that's how it sort of cycles gonna sort of go, which is that we're going to see all these decentralized, things get picked back up into sort of centralized places. And that's how that cycle is

Balaji Srinivasan  1:00:16  
going to sort of go, perhaps, I think, I think it's quite possible that they'll acquire newsletters and so on, you know, they acquire this podcast. However, I do think there's something really important here, which is if you're a writer at a publication, and you're part of the mainstream, and your primary currency is your reputation among your peers, right, then, you know, like, there's a very strong pressure to huge orthodoxy, because you might lose your job, you might lose your opportunities for promotion, and so on and so forth. In fact, the incentive is not to stick out too much. And just to laugh at the same jokes and perform the same ironic detachment, that fray Gabor hadden is awesome essay that he took off his website. Did you guys see that? No, I did. Okay, it was actually really funny. Um, basically, I'll quote it to you, I'll find it but while we're talking, but he actually took it down, but it's, it's still there. It's about like, the immune immovable object versus the ionized thing, basically points out that most folks need to just make ironic jokes all day, and all night and to each other, and they're just performing for their peers. They don't actually believe in anything anymore. Whereas He's like, you know, technical, right? Okay. He's

Unknown Speaker  1:01:22  
just described blue Check Twitter, in DC, New York.

Balaji Srinivasan  1:01:24  
All literally all in group signaling, that's it's all about in groups. It's all in group signaling, right? Whereas, and he correctly observes and I give him credit for observing this even if he's like, you know by zone. By zone nostrums. He says he's, he says, he's a communist or whatever, right? Um, by zone declarations, right? So you know, he, even though he says that he is at least perceptive enough to know that I'm nostrums. not the right word, Porter, um, he's perceptive enough to know that Silicon Valley believes in something right. He says it might be California ideology plus the blockchain, but they they believe in something right. And that actually gives them strength. And that's true. But But coming back to this thing about the, the orthodoxy aspect, essentially, when you have folks who can't step out of line, they, they can't step in line, not just on Twitter, they can't have a line in their writing, they all have to echo the same thing. And it's all just 100 rehashes of basically the same narrative, the big advantage of substack. And then really, you want to get your own domain and have your own newsletter at your own domain, because subject is great, but it's an intermediate step towards that. The big advantage of that is nobody can censor you. And in fact, and this is critical, you have to acquire subscribers from everybody else. So you must stand out. That is completely new. Right? That's an incentive for uniqueness in writing, you know, and what I think will happen is, yeah, some of these things, because, you know, there has been essentially a monopoly in the community. Um, one way of putting it is, even though there's, like, you know, different media outlets, there's Vox and recode, but Rico is part of box, but vice and BuzzFeed and whatever, right, NYT, that is one community, right, folks go and work at each other's companies. Brooklyn specifically, exactly. It's headquartered in Brooklyn, right, in the same way that tech,

Unknown Speaker  1:03:17  
which is no soccer lived in Brooklyn. So we need to be very honest about our own biases. I I

Balaji Srinivasan  1:03:22  
was originally I came from New York. So I do, I do know something of the culture, right? Um, so, you know, tech is also you know, like that, where you've got a16z, and you've got, you know, like, Google, and you've got, um, you know, these different companies. And there's, there's a, there's a flow of people between them, you usually know somebody who knows somebody who's at one of these companies, it is a community just like media is a community. And they're increasingly disjoint. Right, in some ways, because, you know, they're, they're not just separated coastally, but mostly, culturally, and of course, it's not entirely geographical. But maybe it's that's just that's just a good mental way of thinking about what's my point. Point is, on the whole advent of, you know, the combination of pressures that are getting someone like Barry Weiss, and so on to exit, and the advent of being able to just set up your own shingle with a few clicks, that something like substack can actually monetize your audience online, because audience have grown like, you know, probably 10 x at least, but maybe 50 x Penguin, when you account from the age of blogs, right? and more people are used to buying stuff online, and so on. Now, you can have media content that does not agree with Brooklyn anymore. That's a critical thing, where there's a lot of niches that are simply not served due to this sort of Monopoly community. And that's a critical thing. It's a monopoly community. It's not, it's not one company. It is a community. And that's why you need to decentralize. That's why you don't need a new media company. That's it. That's the thing is, that's not the way to solve this. You need a new media community, have lots of writers online, who have their own shingle and crucially, some of them should be synonymous. synonymous pseudonymity is another critical part of decentralized media because You know, Satoshi writing nine pages change the world, you know, literally nine pages. Yeah, Bitcoin right Satoshi Nakamoto, writing nine pages. I mean, of course, it wasn't just that he also wrote a lot of code. You couldn't have done it without the code, right. But that's the power of pseudonymous striding pseudonymous writing created the Republic. You know, that's the Federalist Papers. And I think we're gonna go back to the future on that, where pseudonymous writers monetizing under their own names, or their own pseudonyms on their own domains, potentially earning crypto, that's a very powerful force. And you can now build small organizations around it, maybe even medium sized organizations, which are making not just print, but you know, podcasts or video images, what have you, right. Um, and a lot of the AI stuff is actually going to help with this, you know, now you can get avatars that, you know, look like whoever you want. So you can adopt a pseudonym, and nobody even knows it's a pseudonym, it's so realistic, you can give photos of yourself in different poses, okay. You can, like speak in one voice into a podcast and, you know, sound like, you know, anybody you want on the other side, right? Um, that's coming very soon. That's like, the next few years. So what that means is, you can, I think, set up and distribute ideas and get paid for them without people attacking your character. Very new thing. And I think that's a huge, huge new aspect. So, so Marshall, I don't disagree with you that some of these newsletters will get acquired and rolled up and so on. But there'll be those that are actually still compatible with kind of the the Orthodox now.

Unknown Speaker  1:06:29  
Exactly. I think business writing like to be and now Yeah, that's, that's, that's fascinating. So sorry, I think.

Unknown Speaker  1:06:34  
Yeah, I was gonna say I do think it's fascinating, because the theme of this kind of in the context of my own stuff, I mean, like rising, right, the show that I co host with crystal, I mean, very much exactly what you're talking about, which is that there was this monopoly on political commentary, in a mainstream ish environment, right. And it was all spouting exactly the same thing. And then there wasn't necessarily a proven market for a show that looked mainstream, but didn't talk mainstream and would feature people like Matt Taibbi and David Sirota many other people who are all substack only right who know, me, you could ask a msnbc morning, Joe booking producer who these people were the Who are you talking about who have massive audiences, and then kind of filling in that niche environment? So I'm definitely I definitely am. I'm very much thinking now about that ecosystem that you're talking about. Not necessarily the centralization, but about this alternative ecosystem, and then the battle between a decentralized ecosystem or an alternative ecosystem in some respects, and then whatever we have, in our monopolistic way, and I guess the, I'll try and not clumsily transition to this to geopolitics, but one of the ways that I kind of saw that and which we've talked about offline here is about the US, China and the times right to kind of synthesize all of this is that you have these new york times writers now currently, and I may I'll call her up by name Taylor Lorenz, right, who's literally like a tick tock reporter at the New York Times, very much trying to downplay Chinese influence over bytedance, the parent company of Tick tock, and we're trying to whitewash you know, some of the problems with the Chinese Communist Party and, you know, the regime there and their own treatment of their own citizens. How, how is your thinking kind of, in this particular space about the synthesis of you have a, like a media Chinese Alliance? And then you also we have to think about geopolitically what that split represents. And then the elites on the other side,

Unknown Speaker  1:08:30  
like jump in, I, I, for our audio only listeners, you really need to go to YouTube and look at ologies attempt to restrain a smile.

Unknown Speaker  1:08:42  
Yeah, it's really the most important part of this video. Go on, go forward.

Balaji Srinivasan  1:08:48  
Um, so, um, you know, any any particular person aside, right, because I don't consider that really that important? I do think that it is. It's certainly not going without notice in Silicon Valley, that after years and years and years of attacks on tech companies as being surveillance, capitalism, and so on and so forth. A we sort of see, like, you know, browsing, you know, surveillance journalism applied to tech people, right, like, you know, secretly recording them and so on. But be we see very little scrutiny on, you know, like an app like Tick tock, right. It's really an exception. exception that, you know, she's accepting the rule. It is, um, it shows that a lot of the tech coverage is motivated by tribal animus as opposed to genuine concerns. Right? That's, that's really where it boils down to because, I mean, look, whatever your stance on on China, it's very hard to argue that an American citizen is not, um, somewhat safer with data in American companies then in a Chinese company, you know, like, that could be used for blackmail. It could be used for lots of things right. Um, And and the fact that that, to my knowledge hasn't really been front page on, you know, it's it's basically a piece with COVID. Right COVID or China on, you know, it's something where the tribal animus is something that is leading people off track to actually give incorrect reports that harm themselves and society at large, simply because they hate tech people so much. And to

Unknown Speaker  1:10:23  
add to this, I think this is I think this is fascinating because we started off this conversation with like a wonky, but I think, really important discussion of business models, because you have to understand how interactive power turn from a laptop intersectional these things are. Part of what I suspect is happening here, I definitely the Animus part, the tribal sort of part there is definitely is valid. But I also think you've got a really bad incentive structure where, for example, there's this whole industry of reporting. It's purely based on tech talk and describing these Tick Tock communities and the writers and then the performers versus actual with industrial complex where people are getting book deals right about these things. There's obviously going to be YouTube series and Netflix series, right, this whole another thing, The New York Times is amazing at is creating TV shows and documentaries out of this sort of

Unknown Speaker  1:11:10  
vertically integrated products. There's exactly there's going to be

Unknown Speaker  1:11:14  
exactly so I think what you're sort of seeing is a replication of the bad incentives that existed during the 1990s. I've only read about this, so I can't comment. But you sort of had a lot of tech press. That was way too positive about sort of tech. So they would write all of this. They were the tech writers who are recovering all these new companies like pets.com and pet smart diaper sign on. Yeah. And like home grocer, if anyone wants like a 1999 throwback, so they're writing all these laudatory pieces about this new market, because they were rewarded for those pieces, right. Like they got more coverage, and they added more important beat within the paper. And then they often would create their own internet companies themselves, right. So like, you know, Jim Cramer, he had the street comm right, which is where he was talking as a stock analyst, but he also had a venture funded media publication. So obviously, he's not going to say, Hey, guys, talk. Everyone's taken on too much money. This bubble is over inflating wrong and lose our shirts next year. So I just did that exact situation is happening of tic toc two, and that if you're the tic toc reporter at the Washington Post, New York Times or any other sort of East Coast publication, you have the hippest the coolest be and you're obviously not going to spend your time saying hey, by the way, guys, this could super not be chill. I think this really toxic business model tribal cocktail, which is really dangerous. It's a good reason.

Balaji Srinivasan  1:12:29  
Yeah. I mean, what one thing? So actually, it's interesting point, like, I've also heard this, that all the coverage is really positive. Now you should expect it to get negative. I mean, there's something to that, maybe but but here's the thing, let me give an analogy, maybe from a different angle. Every venture capitalist, an angel investor, you know, when you're talking to a founder or new entrepreneur, and they are thinking about building a business on Facebook, or Twitter or something like that, you'll say, look, you can do it, but realize that the platform may well turn on you if you become successful enough, you know, and by that what I mean is, for example, Meerkat A few years ago, just got the legs, you know, kicked out. That was it?

Unknown Speaker  1:13:06  
Yeah, well, we don't even know what it was.

Balaji Srinivasan  1:13:08  
Yes, it was it was a video sharing. Sorry. Yeah, exactly. It was it was it was basically like, if I recall correctly, was a periscope competitor that was going viral on Twitter. And churches shut down its API access and just you know, acquire Periscope. Right? Um, and and this was something where, you know, this has happened to many, many other companies that that were dependent on the Facebook or Twitter or other feeds, is, you know, these are powerful companies that will absolutely just yank it out from under you right? Now, basically live by the sword die by the sword. If you rely upon social media companies for your distribution, then you're you can get crushed when they yank that from you. Now, here's the thing. The same thing extends to media corporations, if you rely upon media corporations for your reputation, and that's how you reached your, you know, people, then they can yank it from you at their pleasure, right? You serve at their pleasure. And the contrary example of that is somebody like say, Joe Rogan, who just built a direct relationship with the audience or what you folks have done to some extent, you know, you're still, actually I'm sure, have you built email lists? Are you still you're still on YouTube and Twitter?

Unknown Speaker  1:14:21  
We are now independent. So we will be building our email list. That's right.

Balaji Srinivasan  1:14:25  
Awesome. Okay, great. So So yeah, so basically, I'm my boss,

Unknown Speaker  1:14:29  
right, actually, Balaji we're 100% on YouTube. We're all doing Facebook.

Unknown Speaker  1:14:35  
Okay, we're entirely beholden to all of the big technology.

Balaji Srinivasan  1:14:38  
Yeah, no, but but it is. It's actually a real thing. Right is and this is actually something that will drive decentralization is it really almost has nothing to do with political content. It's simply that your commercial interests may not be aligned with this gigantic Corporation. Right. And, you know, I'm not saying it has nothing to do the politics rather, but but rather, that's not the primary motivation anymore. You know, whatever your political leanings, you Should Know that your interests may be misaligned with this gigantic mega Corporation, they may decide to cost you like a bug, they may down rank you in the feed for their own reasons. They may have a bug themselves and get hacked lots of stuff, which is why you need to kind of have your own own thing, right? Not to say you can't use them, but you just can't be completely dependent on them. And that extensive but social media and media corporations, right, and I want to get

Unknown Speaker  1:15:20  
one actually bring this into, like, bookend our conversation because we're nearing we're nearing the end. But this is actually

Balaji Srinivasan  1:15:26  
so much more go.

Unknown Speaker  1:15:27  
Yeah, no, no, it's great. We were This is actually the longest we've ever taped. So we are experimenting with our audience's tolerance for our big grain thought I'm using No, but um, so to the conflict between media and journal media, journalism and the tech companies. That's why the year 2017 is a very important year, because what you had happen in 2015 2016 is a lot of media companies that were venture funded, built their entire business model on Facebook, on Google, right. So like, if you're Mike, for example, if What if we were pitching you and you were at a16z? In 2014, let's say we're doing the mic company, we said, hey, look, here's the deal. All these millennials, these young people, they love Facebook, they don't read the newspaper anymore, we're gonna build this platform, there's gonna get so good at creating content that gets shared on Facebook, but it's just going to blow up. Right? So we're going to make shows of Facebook, we're doing BuzzFeed told the same story. But what happened though, is these companies built themselves on the back of Facebook, and Google was search engine optimization. And then when Facebook said, Hey, wait a second, it turns out that our viewers don't actually like watching video. So we're going to cut our video deals, or when they said, Hey, like, it turns out that like after the 2016 election, we should be optimizing for friends and family content, rather than just clickbait BS. A lot of companies lost their shirt. So I think that was another. That was something I think I'm contradicting myself earlier, when I said that reporters don't really see the business side of things. I think when reporters aka a lot of young up and coming ones who are very sort of New York, I saw lacorte saw their companies literally go bankrupt or get sold for pennies when they raised over $70 million. In the case of Mike, I think that did create a very antagonistic relationship. I think there are there is a set of reporters who would say to themselves, Mark Zuckerberg, Sheryl Sandberg, and the Facebook, you know, news team destroyed our business, and there is some antagonism there. And that's something that people openly will say,

Balaji Srinivasan  1:17:20  
yeah, and and by the way, I think that that was very much a tactical and strategic care for them to do that.

Unknown Speaker  1:17:27  
The company's

Balaji Srinivasan  1:17:29  
actions were actually I guess, both right. But basically, like, I think, from an ethical standpoint, Facebook, you know, the thing is, Facebook, when Facebook screws, tech companies like that, which it did a lot, um, tech companies would kind of just grimace, but then they would, you know, get back in the ring with a different company or something like that, right? I'm,

Unknown Speaker  1:17:48  
like a founder, right. So like, you would like your company blows up and you choose something new is that you're saying?

Balaji Srinivasan  1:17:52  
Yeah, your company is killed by Facebook, you may not like it, but on their hand, you're like, Well, you know, what Zuck may buy my next company someday, it's still the same ecosystem, right? Um, it was 1000. XP, so people who might find my stuff. So Alright, fine. This really sucked. But I'm going to be, you know, suck it up and be positive some and maybe the next one I do I disrupt Facebook. Right. Um, which has happened, right. You know, there's a lot of folks who have had, you know, valuable enough things that they've had to pay for it. Right. So, like, the Animus, I mean, this is what's called a revenge business. Have you heard that term? You know, yeah. So when you have animus? Because, I mean, there's definitely fights that happen in tech, no question about it, right. But the way that's channeled, typically, is you build a revenge business, which I should say typically, but let's say the best way of doing it, where you're like, ah, God, that guy sucks so much, that person sucks so much. I'm going to show the world that we can do it better. I'll give you two examples that are actually public examples. So I'm familiar with a16z, and Angel list and actually also traps clinics third, either second, or third company. So clinic, let's give them in reverse order. Kalanick had done a company which got

Unknown Speaker  1:19:00  
this was this CEO, former CEO of Uber,

Balaji Srinivasan  1:19:02  
right. Yes, former CFO, right. He had done one of his first companies was something that was like a file sharing thing, that that got killed by a record label suing it out of business. So he's like, you know what, in my second business, I'm going to make them pay me. And so he set up like a CDN, like a like a basically a content distribution network that eventually got acquired by Akamai. So the same record companies who had been suing him before we're paying him now. Right? kind of funny. All right, so it was a success for him that was actually and with those winnings, he was able to then go and, you know, become an angel investor and eventually do Ober. Um, with the, you know, a16z and Angel list. Those were both funded due to mark and devolves experience with translation

Unknown Speaker  1:19:41  
of our con.

Balaji Srinivasan  1:19:42  
Yeah, sorry, I'm being very spiky here.

Unknown Speaker  1:19:45  
inside baseball.

Unknown Speaker  1:19:48  
ology, don't worry.

Balaji Srinivasan  1:19:50  
Okay. So yeah, so basically, so Marc Andreessen, who invented the web browser on you know, founder of Netscape and co founder of lab cloud and interesting art. It's so interesting Harvard was born in part out of everything that Marc Andreessen and Ben Horowitz had seen in terms of issues, especially with venture capital in, you know, the turn of the century around the early 2000s. Because it was more of a wall street cutthroat business at that time. And it was less founder friendly, it was less aligned was more of a just an asset class. More like, pe private equity. Yes, yeah.

Unknown Speaker  1:20:23  
So to sort of contextualize this, when you sort of the founder from a reference sort of this idea that, you know, you're you're a young founder, you had an idea, you you raise some venture capital money, and then three months later, you they bring in like a seasoned veteran CEO. That's sort of like what that's that's sort of the idea. You're talking right, the founder?

Balaji Srinivasan  1:20:40  
Yeah. So it's, it's actually, it's like a deep thing. But yeah, basically, what what the typical model was, in the 90s, and early 2000s, was, you know, you need a lot of venture capital to go and launch something because you need to buy like, like servers. And like, if we didn't have AWS and all the stuff that we have now, Amazon Web Services, where you can launch, you know, for cheaply, so you need a lot of venture capital to do it. And you're beholden to venture capitalists. And if you missed any kind of financial milestone, they would just cap you, your fire you and you know, now you're you're done, right? Um, there was not that trust in the founder. Now, the very biggest companies, though, were typically built by folks who were founders who ran them all the way to the top Google, you know, Amazon, Facebook, apple, you know, Microsoft already interruption for Apple. Yeah. Right. But But basically, those are all things where I think broadly speaking, you can say the founders took them to infinity, right. And those are the big five right now. You know, they're currently being run by by other people, some of them, you know, Tim Cook and set the unsend. There are very, very intelligent folks. But if you look at like the accretion of value, a huge part of that initial, you know, the first, you know, saying like, the first million is the hardest, right? The first hundred billion is the hardest, right? It's actually, I wish I could identify

Unknown Speaker  1:21:55  
with that first.

Balaji Srinivasan  1:22:01  
It's actually it's funny, my Quint is just actually a Drake thing. I'm sure drinking invented, but Drake tweeted the first million is the hardest and T. Boone Pickens don't turn him and said, the first billion is a hell of a lot harder. kind of funny for a while back. But yeah, what's my point? Um, so, so the whole move towards founder friendly venture capital, which happened in two different ways. angellist is sort of like self serve, right. So it's like, angel investing as a web service, you can go there, you can set up your company, you can incorporate, you can raise money, you can set up a fund, it's like trying to actually turn the thing into a web app, because it was kind of antiquated in many ways. That's one model. The other model is the agency model, where you, you know, you basically say, look, to the founder, it's going to be hard, you're gonna have to learn to go from an engineer, or a scientist to become a CEO, and you're going to have to learn management skills, we're here to help you, and we're here to level you up, and we're here to network you into our community, we're going to give you a lot of rope, so that you can screw up. And, you know, like, just fix it right. And, you know, here's a bunch of things to do. And we're gonna like, kind of avert our eyes at times, or whatever. But go Go get them because you have the passion, you understand how to operate, you know, you're the technical founder, it's easier to transact founder to be the CEO. And that in both those models, we're basically revenge businesses. So you know, because they were, they were a critique of what came before. But it was a constructive critique by building something better, right, as well as Travis Kalanick. Business, right. So that's how, you know, tech tends to channel that kind of animus from conflict into building something better, and showing them that you can do something better right. Now, I'm not saying that's the only way of doing it. But But So I think, you know, pulling it all the way back, that, you know, the issue is that that doesn't really exist right now in media where the way you get them back, I think it's just fine. crushing them in column after column. Would you sense

Unknown Speaker  1:23:55  
Twitter? It goes back to what you talked about earlier, where you're like, at least they believe in something. And you're right. There's just like, a deep nihilism that kind of pervades a lot of media coverage. I mean, look, I'm part of this, you know, and I'm definitely a heretic, here. Yeah, look, I mean, I, I've done it before, right? It's easy. It's very easy, right? In order to go but you're right, which is that you have to offer some sort of positive framework. And I think that that's the only way. And I guess, again, to do like a hard turn here, but because, again, a lot of people we asked her on Twitter.

Unknown Speaker  1:24:24  
Hey, sorry. Before we I just want to make a quick point for you. Pivot. I'm just on this. I think Balaji you just got to because obviously, we have a political audience, too. I think you just got it. Well, because we're East coasters, obviously. I think you've got to a lot of the frustration with the east coast where, you know, in Silicon Valley, and obviously, it's an ideal, what's the narrative like, this isn't always like literally true, man. This dude goes different. I need to be ironic to make sure I can't just say something. But I think that I envy how in Silicon Valley, certain people are able to just sort of like build something new, because the issue in the East Coast is that we We all operate within institutions, right? So institutions that people have lost faith in, right? So if you if you like politics right now, like, okay, like, this is soccer and my story, moved to DC in the early 2010s during the Obama presidency and then like, do a congressional internship and then go work at a media company or go work at some nonprofit, which we both do. But those aren't really building things, right. Like, they're not really building things, and they're just just sort of forced to participate in these institutions that if you're self aware, not a grifter, you know, they're very broken, and no one has any faith and trust in them. But there's no other alternative. So I think that something that longer term I'm interested in figuring out is like, how is it that you could sort of rebuild these new hours that you could build new East Coast institutions that do have a degree of trust to them and offer an alternate way out and is participating in a broken system? That's sort of like a I think that's like a realignment goal, we have?

Balaji Srinivasan  1:25:51  
Two super quick things, can you share? One thing I you know, I've certainly been critical of, you know, media and so on, you know, so far, but I want to say that I'm actually thinking deeply about new ways to fund media. And in particular, and this is very important to, to borrow a term, realign tech, media and society, right, because I actually got a lot of DMS, from, you know, journalists who are, you know, basically also looking for a different way, right,

Unknown Speaker  1:26:20  
you read your tweet act, you know, what was the tweet?

Balaji Srinivasan  1:26:24  
Oh, the one about my, like, the amnesty, ya know,

Unknown Speaker  1:26:27  
you're like, hey, it's a general amnesty. And you were like, I think he said, something like, I really want you all to be your own CEO, I want you to get a profit. That's right, read something new.

Balaji Srinivasan  1:26:36  
That's right. And actually, a bunch of people took me up on this, I said, I'm sorry, it's my pin tweet, if you go to twitter.com Ford slash be a la GIS to Kampala, GS, I have instructions on how to set up a paid newsletter, right. And at your own domain, it's like very step by step. And then one of the things I said was, also, if you're an employee of immediate Corporation, you may not realize this, but I really do want you to be CEO of your own publication. So consider this a general amnesty for all pass flame wars, specifically, if you have, if you have issues with setting up your paid newsletter, dm, and I'll help and you'd be amazed at how many people I basically just did tech support for over the last week, I'm not gonna, I'm not gonna, you know, divulge name names, right, but but it's like on the order of like, 10 to 15 people, right. And that's actually kind of a lot, right, you know, and it's, and they definitely sent it around to their friends and colleagues. Because, you know, I do believe it is possible to, um, you know, tech and media are actually aligned going into 2012. And, you know, that exact, you know, configuration may not be recoverable. But I definitely do think it's possible to realign tech and media, if we start thinking about and, and here may be where I'm not sure if I, if I differing from you, or if I'm similar, or what have you, but I'll put out something that I've been, you know, doing a little bit of writing towards, and it'll be much more of it. Essentially, what I believe is that we need to take a step back in tech and, and talk less about the tech industry and the valuations and talk more about the technology and our values. And that's because I think there's nothing wrong with starting businesses, and you know, profit and making money and so on. But that is actually not why many of the best folks in tech got into it, they got into it, because, you know, the feeling of actually, and it sounds corny to say it's but actually making the world a better place as much as that's mocked, or whatever it is, it is actually a real real drive. And, and one of the things I've been thinking a lot about is, you know, the purpose of technology, right? So I put up an essay on this on my site. But you know, and you can, you can see the logic there. But I actually do argue that the purpose of technology is to improve life expectancy, and ultimately to get to, like eternal life. Right? And why do I say that? Well, that obviously incorporates, you know, 100 different health breakthroughs, from from wearables to glucose monitoring to some of the new technologies that are showing aging reversal. But it's more than just the technology, it's also the sense that we're actually doing something to benefit humanity. It's not just a video game or an app as much as I like those things. That should not be the core of what we're doing. What we should be doing is actually focusing on let's call it transhuman technologies, and then you know that that is to say it's, it's it's reversing aging, it's restoring hearing, this is possible, you know, I've got some links in this post on this. It's restoring sight with bionic eyes. This is also possible. This is stuff that you frankly, probably haven't heard of it sounds like miracles or sci fi, but it's actually out there. It's in production, it's in patients. I'm not saying it's at millions of patients now, but it's not at zero anymore. And this is actually something that's possible to do is sometimes small organisms, sometimes it's in, you know, a few patients in a clinic, but we should have saturation coverage of this stuff, and we should talk about it and we should fund it. And we should, you know, like start rolling folks from wall street or whatever into this kind of thing as opposed to optimizing you know, a video game right and even more broadly It's not just transhumanism, but it is. It's Mars, right? It is, you know, fusion energy to stop climate change. It's, it's self driving cars, to reduce traffic fatalities. It's genetic testing and, you know, at home diagnosis to stop COVID we need to start making the emotional case for technology. And we need to start basically building a group of what I call technological progressives, that are just really unapologetic activists for a better future. This is the kind of thing where I think we can fund it. This is actually a place where I feel I'm not saying everybody in traditional media, but I think a good chunk of them will kind of, you know, snap, snap, you know, together on this with us, because it we're actually going after the same problems are talking about but we're doing it through this is critical through the mechanism technology rather than politics. Right? Yeah,

Unknown Speaker  1:30:48  
like this guy, right? This goes to the kind of what I was talking about earlier, that synthesis of where there's a deep nihilism that that doesn't allow anybody to really buy into and whenever that nihilism pervades the popular culture and the main Oregon kind of, of politics, media, and critical thinking that it can do a lot of damage. And that's saying one of the things that I've always found most interesting about about you and what you're talking about here with technological progressivism, it does give you something to believe in. It gives us a positivist structure of which you can use a media company or you can use a personality or you can use your coverage to go towards that goal. So let's talk about then how do you align those two things? So we've talked about the media, decentralized media. Now we talked also about I think, you know, there's a general shared consensus that there's a kind of a leftist progressive view, which is not which is antithetical to a lot of what we believe in and much more so if our positive structure is to be a technological progressivism what's what is the what do we need to build in terms of ecosystem in order to gain

Balaji Srinivasan  1:31:53  
so this actually where it kind of snaps back to decentralized media? Um, you know, if you go and you look at, like jobs? right? Exactly. So it actually all coheres. It's, it's a lot

Unknown Speaker  1:32:06  
of concepts. Yeah, we're not crazy. We had a purpose here. Thank you.

Balaji Srinivasan  1:32:09  
Yeah, I probably should make some like, kind of Mind Map concept thing or whatever, on my site at some point. Um, hopefully, by the time this, this episode is out, people can go to Balaji s calm and see some, you know, look at some essays on decentralized media. That's Ba La GIS calm.

Unknown Speaker  1:32:26  
All right, we'll put it on the show notes, too.

Balaji Srinivasan  1:32:28  
There you go. There you go. Um, yeah, how does this actually relate to decentralized media? Well, um, we want media, which is, it's International. So that is to say, you know, it's, it's not just American, but it's, you know, it's Canadian, and it's Israeli. And it's Indian, and it's Japanese, and it's Brazilian, it's accessible to people around the world. And it's a positive vision of what you know, America stood for, it's basically like the West Coast vision of America, you know, it is its founding, its pioneering it is it starting something new, it's building something from scratch, it's tinkering in your garage. It's, it's investing in people, and it's helping them and this is critical become richer than you. You know, like, that's the thing is, you're truly aligned with somebody, if you're happy, when they become much richer than you, you put in $25,000 into their company, they become, you know, a multimillionaire, and you get, you know, like, you know, a few hundred thousand dollars out of it, you're actually happy for them and happy for yourself. Like, that doesn't always happen. But you know, even if it's a Subway sandwich, and you invest 25 K, and you get back 50 K, but that person become much richer, you're happy, right? So that that set of mores is in it's it's linked very closely, it's it's hard to, it's inextricable from the, you know, kind of setting this new direction of progress. It's the values that underpin the valuations. And that's one of the big things about why I think we need to build this decentralized media ecosystem is we need coverage of things that are frankly ignored, like, you know, the fact that you can reverse aging in mice. You know, that's, that should be front page news, everybody should know about that. Like, that shouldn't be a surprise to you, that happened actually a while ago, the fact that we've got potential treatments for deafness or for sight, the fact that flying cars are starting to work, the fact that fusion energy is starting to work that supersonic aircraft are coming back, like there's actually it's not. And this is very important, not just like, oh, why are we reporting the good news? It's actually like, this is the vector of societal progress that removes scarcity from the world that, you know, feeds the hungry and curious, the sick. And this is where resource allocation should go. And the what proceeds resource allocation is attention. You know, like, it is literally raising awareness, right. So I think we need to kind of fuse aspects of different movements here. And, you know, I've got some ideas on how one can actually make the folks who are writing and it's not just writing By the way, it is, it's, it's obviously podcasts and images and memes, but it's also movies, and I think that's like maybe like the highest form in some sense, right? It doesn't have to be full feature films, maybe it eventually gets there. But one of my goals is a Netflix original Library's worth of content for technological progressives inspirational content for technologic, progressives, meaning you can literally just watch that, and only that for the rest of your life. And you'll just see more and more awesome stuff and get psyched up. And it'll it'll take you directly into the technical tutorials to go and start something in that area. Right. Um, just to kind of motivate this and say, Why why, you know, focus on that? Well, even dystopian sci fi is inspiring, for example, the Kinect, you know, the, it's a motion tracking device that Microsoft made, you probably are aware of it. Yeah, for the Xbox, but now it's like a standalone thing that was inspired by Minority Report. Um, and Bill Gates is, you know, like, really low cost decentralized toilets that don't require central plumbing that was inspired by an article he saw by Nicholas Kristoff. And

you know, there are a number of folks in tech who were inspired by, you know, some frame and a movie, you know, some some cool thing and then tried to actually go and make that into reality. Right. And this is true, even when the movie frame is dystopian, you know, it's Terminator. Oh, my God, you know, artificial tells is going to kill us all that kind of thing. You know, there's still like, a coolness to it, you know? And people like, Hey, can I actually do that in real life, you know, not kill everybody, obviously, but like, you know, make make an autonomous robot. Right? That's, there's like a cool aspect to it. And I think it is possible to sort of, you know, reverse the polarities and go and start making, if not utopian sci fi sci fi with a different cast to it. For example, if you go watch the original Ghostbusters, on the good guys are the scientists. The bad guys are the regulator's they're trying to stop them from deploying their ghostbusting technology. Right. So this flips the normal, you know, storyline for in a dystopian sci fi thing, the implicit frame is that the present is ideal, like, and the future is worse, right? Um, the reverse of that is something where there's a conflict, and the present is turned bad, right? Or the present is bad. And you're trying to make the future better, but you're being stopped by somebody. Right? And just like, you could take that first storyline, and just map that into 1000, dystopian, you know, movies, you could take the second storyline and map that into 1000, triumphal or heroic movies, where you managed to get the innovation through, despite all these people fighting you. And that's frankly, how, you know, a lot of tech actually goes, you know, and the thing is that folks, at the at the end of the day, they'll be thankful that the innovation got through, I mean, one example this, by the way, you may not be aware of the human genome, you know, that was actually something which was fought tooth and nail by a bunch of scientists, they wanted to stop the funding of it. Now, this wasn't in the tech industry, it wasn't, you know, Silicon Valley was funding, it was government funding, but it was Mavericks within, you know, the government that were trying to push this through the attack left and right by all kinds of people. And then 10 or 15 years later, all the folks who attacked them have either pretended they never attacked, or they're like, Oh, I was wrong very suddenly. Or they just adopt the new thing, you know, and they don't, they don't ever talk about right. So so you push through, you push against the opposition, and then even the person who oppose you benefits from it at the end. That's actually also a positive vision, you know, it's not like oh, crush your enemy. It's actually like, Oh, your enemy, it's actually converted. And that's actually even better, you know.

Unknown Speaker  1:38:25  
So what I appreciate about this episode, because we're at our wrap time, apologies that this is actually probably one of our first realignment episodes that's ended on a positive note. I mean, I mean, that's true with this, too. And it's sort of people sort of asked, like how we think we're going to take this podcast, either we're independent of gods and Institute, but I think sort of trying to focus on the objective of building trying to focus on how we could sort of do things with things and then like, linking to that and linking people to your essay on your resume, which is really great. I'm a huge Star Trek fan. And I think the technological progressivism idea like really speaks to sort of the best, sort of like the best part of that ethos. Right. So I think that's really great. So thank you. Yeah, so it's awesome.

Unknown Speaker  1:39:07  
Balaji Thank you. Thank you so much. We really appreciate it. Great.

Transcribed by https://otter.ai
