Unknown Speaker  0:04  
I'm Tom Jessup. I'd like to welcome everyone to the latest installment of toxic Gs. We've got two experts with us today. Balaji Srinivasan is a general partner at Andreessen Horowitz and Jerry Brito, the executive director of coin Center, a nonprofit organization focused on digital currency research and advocacy. And it's my pleasure to be moderating the discussion today entitled The evolution of Bitcoin. I'm going to turn it over to Balaji, who's going to walk through a presentation and then Jerry and I will join him on stage for a brief q&a Balaji.

Unknown Speaker  0:34  
Okay, thank you very much for that kind introduction. We're going to talk today about just some sort of basics on Bitcoin and why we at Andreessen Horowitz think it's important. Number one, we think of Bitcoin as a protocol, right? That is to say payments are now packets, it's not paper based money, it's packet based money. And that's a natural fit for the internet, where you can send packets and receive packets, it's you know, packet based money is good remuneration for packet. So talk about Bitcoin is a protocol, when we think of Bitcoin as a protocol. That's why we really compare it to the internet in terms of its impact, right. And so when we're thinking about the internet is, you know, before, you have to do a deal with a telco deploy code relate information on the network backbone, okay, let's say you need to do a multi million dollar deal, you need to do business development, to get that code there. Afterwards, any node can programmatically send packets to anyone or many anyone's via the internet, okay, there's, you know, the barriers to entry to writing code, adult information dropped, you know, like, you know, million fold, basically overnight, right. And it's, you know, what we call permissionless innovation. In addition to the barrier shopping, we also integrated all these disparate networks, and those got integrate into one internet. And now today, when you think about any kind of information, you transfer it over the internet, whether it's books, or movies, or files or anything like that. And you can do all those in one like zip file, for example, you can send a bunch of different kinds of information at the same time, we take all that for granted. And that's the kind of transformation that Bitcoin allows, right? So before you need to do a deal with a bank to you know, transfer value in the system. But after Bitcoin, any node that can connect to the internet can programmatically transfer value from one node to another right? Before it all these different methods of transferring value had cash, you had credit cards, you had wire transfers, that were applicable at different scales and frequencies of money, you know, for example, cash one to 100, and credit cards, like you know, 100 to 1000, wire transfers more than that, I mean, you're not gonna be able to send a wire transfer super frequently, you can't do like 50 in a day at $20 million, right, like back and forth, that'll solve all kinds of alarm bells, and it won't happen, right? But that's the kind thing you can do with Bitcoin. There's no limits anymore. It's totally programmable, right? It's like a unified way of transferring things. And just like with the internet, once you had a unified way of transferring information, you could transfer books and films and files, once you have a unified way of transferring value. Okay, you can not just transfer BTC, but stock certificates, digital keys to doors, you know, like locks, anything that is a value, you can now transfer it right. So that's mind blowing in terms of simplifications, right. So that's why we think of this as being a pretty big deal to an end user, you know, at least as you're using Bitcoin today, you can think of a lot like email. Anybody who has your public email address, can send you an email, but only you with your private key can send out from that email address. In the same way with Bitcoin anybody who has your public Bitcoin address can send you Bitcoin, but only you with your private Bitcoin password can send out. And the one distinction is that with email, nobody who has your public email address can see your number of unread messages, right? But anybody who has your public Bitcoin address can see the amount of Bitcoin that was deposited into your inbox, your Bitcoin address. But otherwise, it's similar in kind of its use case. Moreover, it's also similar in the sense there's no email calm, that controls email, and there's no bitcoin.com that controls the condition. It's not commercial, it's open source. every entity now can have, you know, a bitcoin wallet. And that's as big a jump as you went from like human telephone addresses, right? To machine IP addresses. You go from human bank accounts, to machine bitcoin wallets, banking, for machines, just like you now have communication for machines. That's a big step just in its own right, right. But you know, every entity, every device, anything that's connected to the internet can send or receive, every country can plug into this. Every amount. It's like, it doesn't matter from my, you know, point 0001 BTC to millions of dollars. It's extensible, it's unfeasible. You know, there's nobody who can block it. And it keeps improving. Okay, so any limitation that you see on Bitcoin today, for example, 10 minute confirmation times, right? There's patches out there that reduce it to 10 seconds, there's patches out there to reduce it to millisecond confirmation times. There's patches to increase the transaction volume from you know, roughly like seven per second to like billions. Eventually, like there's a whole roadmap that's been published, right. So just the coin is growing fast, right? It's a four sided network effect. There's, you know, basically four entities here. There's the miners, who are the ones who verify transactions, they mined transactions, they print currency. There's the developers that write Bitcoin apps. There's a merchants who basically Sell good for Bitcoin. And they're the users that use Bitcoin for goods and apps. What happens here is there's a feedback loop over there, where more miners mean better infrastructure. So developers feel more confident in building, the more apps that developers build and more purchases and and items that are for sale by merchants. And the more users all those things feed to Bitcoin demand, which was bitcoin price, which is more than central to the miners. So that's that feedback loop that occurs, there's lots of smaller loops over here, right? And this is a pretty powerful kind of thing. When you have a network effect like this, that's gotten to the scale that Bitcoin has, it's very difficult to dislodge. So price, right. So now this is the one thing which is kind of confounding, right? Why is price down? And the answer is prices down because the hash rate is up. miners are selling Bitcoin, the Bitcoin that they mined to pay their electricity bills, since they're in this, you know, neck and neck zero sum game with all these other miners. And in our view, that is what's responsible for the dumping of Bitcoin this year paradox because there's so much interest in Bitcoin people were selling so much to pay their electricity bills, right. With that said, the long term price trend is actually about an order of magnitude a year for the past five years. So you look at the log scale, right? That's pretty interesting, right? Going from like one cent to $300 in like four or five years is pretty steep climb facts. So just very quickly, why is Bitcoin likely to be the winner? Right? Is it modifiable answer is yes. There's basically VIP is Bitcoin improvement proposals. There's ways to patch it upgraded. Is it secure? Well, you'd make a billion dollars if you could crack it, is it scalable? So you know, there's a scalability roadmap is published in 20 years, the kinds of transactions of frequency of transactions will be going through Bitcoin, you'll have multi million dollar wires clearing back and forth around the world and you know, milliseconds, like something that's like kind of inconceivable to us today.

Unknown Speaker  6:41  
Now, some people say maybe I'm interested in a blockchain, not Bitcoin. The reason that we disagree that they can be separated is that in order for a blockchain to work, block anything, blockchain like to work in a bunch of people running distributed servers, for people to run those servers, they need some incentive, because the servers cost money. And that incentive comes in the token, the scarce token that is generated by the proof of work that they run, in this case, it's Bitcoin, even another blockchain, like things like file, coin, and so on, the tokens would have to be valuable, right? So we do think that in the concept of blockchain is not really separable from the concept of a digital currency. People talk about the 51% attack, we think this is oversold, there's technical countermeasures against it. Some people asked, Is it a fundamental value, right? Can you eat Bitcoin? And the answer is actually Yes, there is fundamental value. You can think of a slice of Bitcoin as basically or one Satoshi, which is the smallest unit of Bitcoin as the ability to write to the distributed ledger that is the blockchain, right? And if writing to a database has value, a globally replicated distributed undeliverable database, then Bitcoin has a fundamental value, and you can bootstrap from there. Right? And that's why we think Bitcoin will be the most core technology at the SEC.

Unknown Speaker  7:46  
Thanks. Thanks, Balaji. Very, very interesting. I'd like to actually give Jerry an opportunity to talk a bit about what he's doing. Because the observation is that there's incredible amounts of money pouring into bitcoin, you know, just the amount of money spent on hardware electricity, just the mind Bitcoin is significant, let alone the capital investment going at some companies, like the ones Andreessen is invested in. And so Jeff, mere perspective with coin center, what are some of the hot button issues? You guys are dealing with? A Where do you think the regulator's are in terms of legitimizing Bitcoin more broadly in the marketplace? Sure. So let me

Unknown Speaker  8:15  
start by saying that, so coin center exists, because, you know, with all of that energy and resources going into bitcoin, what we discovered is that in DC, and in fact, in state capitals, where a lot of the activity is happening, there's very little understanding of this technology. And so coin center exists to provide that education. And so we do the research to develop answers to a populace policy questions. And we want to advocate for an approach that meets sort of the interest and the needs of the regulators while allowing for the innovation to continue. And so where does it sit right now? You could talk about it at the federal level, and at the state level, a lot of activities happening at the state level, because while Bitcoin itself can't be regulated, per se, because it is protocol that exists on the internet, it's like regulating email, not something that really a government could do. You can regulate the intermediaries. And so a lot of the businesses that are building out the infrastructure around Bitcoin, so they're going to be the wallet providers, these are going to be the merchant processors, etc, are going to be subject to all kinds of regulations, including anti money laundering, money transmission,

Unknown Speaker  9:26  
regulation, just expanding the question globally, is there in terms of jurisdictions globally? Are there any ones that you'd point to that appear to be more progressive on Bitcoin? And is there a risk of regulatory arbitrage to the extent that certain jurisdictions adapt and adopt Bitcoin before the US or other perhaps more developed economies,

Unknown Speaker  9:44  
the Japanese regulators actually dug in really understood the technology and are now actually pretty positive on Bitcoin to the point that they're saying, okay, we're just going to have basically like an internet cell self regulatory bodies, and so it's probably the most liberal country in the world in terms of Bitcoin regulation right now. So interesting places new business. I think the UK is also made very positive noises in a different kind of way. Chancellor Osborne has said that he wants Bitcoin companies to be founded their major you can speak to that.

Unknown Speaker  10:11  
I think that's right. I think they're countries that that see Bitcoin as an opportunity to attract business and do that regulatory arbitrage. And so the UK certainly is, has an ongoing proceeding where they're taking comments from the public about how they should structure their regulatory regime to make it easier for Bitcoin and other FinTech companies to to come into the space. But actually, you know, as Balaji was saying, I think people have been waiting for the US for some shoe to drop. But actually, when talking to regulators, they understand the potential of this technology. I think that they have the concerns that by statute, they're, it's their job to have those concerns. And so they're going to try to work to meet those concerns. But actually, I think the US has a has a pretty good regime right now.

Unknown Speaker  10:56  
What's the killer app? What's the thing that's going to create the transmission from the hobbyist early adopter to people like my parents,

Unknown Speaker  11:04  
Bitcoin isn't the dollar, but it could be the dollar of the internet, right? So say there are niches that the dollar cannot colonize right now, or that any fiat currency Can I call it is by virtue of the fact that credit card systems were not built for micro payments, our thesis is that it's going to start with micro payments, it's gonna start with very low stakes kinds of things, right? So for example, in game points for video games get a high score in one game, you can pour it over to another, right shows the demand for portable virtual currency. Right? And so like, that's an obvious thing to redo with Bitcoin. So those kinds of things like extremely low stakes activities, using Bitcoin are the kinds of things which we think are going to be first,

Unknown Speaker  11:40  
I think, when people aren't searching this killer app. And of course, if we knew the answer we'd be building and I'm analogy. I'm not building it right now myself. But you have to think about where would that come from? I think it would come from where traditional payment systems traditional rails don't some some use case that today is not being served. And so where is that? Right now as Balaji? saying it's going to be either at the very bottom, very, very tiny transactions are not possible, not economically feasible today, are very big transactions. So I that's where I would look. I'm not sure what the answer is, what are

Unknown Speaker  12:10  
the most important things for folks in this audience to keep an eye on just to maintain, maintain a view on where things are headed?

Unknown Speaker  12:16  
I'd say basically, every metric in the system is trending up other than price. And I think with price, it's something where we have that sort of artificial phenomenon of miners piling into jack up hash rate has pushed down price, you have like a weird anti correlation kind of thing going on there. With that said, I don't think that business models have been found yet. I think it's something where people are still figuring out what happens when every transaction fee is set to zero. Where do you make your money?

Unknown Speaker  12:37  
One of the things that's interesting to me is when I first sort of started learning about Bitcoin, it was sort of on bad terms. What is the industry doing the ecosystem? You guys, what are you guys doing? What can you do to increase the profile that these are legitimate businesses that they serve a broader public purpose? What are some of the things that you think are gonna maybe address some of those negative connotations?

Unknown Speaker  12:59  
I think it's education. I think it's engaging regulators and elected officials in a dialogue and something that we're doing. And I think that's something that's, that's going pretty well,

Unknown Speaker  13:08  
yeah. And so my thought on that is, I think, actually, we've done a pretty good job or less 18 months of education. And, you know, certainly like the conversation is vastly different today. Like entrepreneurs now know that they can build the confidence and you're gonna see a lot more of them coming.

Unknown Speaker  13:22  
I'd love to thank Balaji and Jerry for their time today, obviously very exciting space. Thank you for your time.

Transcribed by https://otter.ai
