Unknown Speaker  0:00  
COVID-19 is the formal name of this disease whose initial cold the novel coronavirus and encode 19 novel Coronavirus. 2019 denoted both the virus and the disease. And now they have sort of factor those out into

Unknown Speaker  0:14  
SARS Cove two, which is the

Unknown Speaker  0:16  
virus and COVID-19 the disease.

Unknown Speaker  0:27  
Hello, and welcome. I'm Shane Parrish, and you're listening to a special episode of the knowledge project, a podcast dedicated to mastering the best of what other people have already figured out. This episode is special because we're gonna deep dive on COVID-19 really done an episode about a timely issue affecting a lot of people before so consider this a pop up episode. We'll do these from time to time when we feel like we can add something to the conversation. This episode is also special, because it has no sponsor other than us. If you'd like to podcast with no sponsors, and you want to support us, you can go to Fs dot blog slash podcast and click premium. You'll save time get transcripts and a host of other goodies and help support overdue. Today I'm talking with Balaji Srinivasan, I've said that wrong and I'm sorry, it's not easy to pronounce. I want to preface this conversation by saying the opinions expressed in here are those of the participants and not furnham Street media, the participants are not medical professionals. I think doctors are some of the most incredible people in the world. And if you're having symptoms, you need to see your GP. Our guest is also not a pandemic expert. He is however one smart dude, and he thinks in a very multi disciplinary way. This episode is full of what ifs what could be hypotheticals what's going on, and it borders on sci fi at some point. As you'll quickly find out this interesting interview. I don't know anything with the subject, but I'm about to dive in and learn. I'll tell you more about our guests in a moment. It's time to listen and learn.

Unknown Speaker  2:08  
Balaji Welcome to the show, how do I say that? Balaji

Unknown Speaker  2:11  
Balaji. But yeah, that Balaji as long as it's said with good intent, I don't care if people mispronounce it.

Unknown Speaker  2:17  
So it's fine. I'm not that sensitive.

Unknown Speaker  2:19  
So we're gonna talk COVID-19. And I just want to preface this conversation by saying, This isn't medical advice. If you're experiencing any symptoms whatsoever, you should go see your GP. We're not doctors, I'm definitely not as smart as you are. I sort of represent I think the average person, I'm just curious about this subject. And you seem to know a lot more about us than most people. Can you walk me through a little bit of your background?

Unknown Speaker  2:45  
Sure. So I'm a PhD, not an MD, a PhD in electrical engineering with an MS in chemical engineering from Stanford. And some of the specific work that I did in grad school was around genetic circuits and microbes. That's looking at how viruses and microbes are wired internally, their system diagrams, protein interaction networks, statistical and computational analysis of their genome sequences, you know, that kind of thing. And when you think of that kind of work in genetic circuits, or systems biology, that's at the intersection of electrical engineering, computer science, genomic stats, biochemistry, etc. I also have some papers in clinical genomics, population genomics and so on, and then taught CS stats by informatics champion for a few years to lecture in the stats department. And then in 2007 2008, I founded a genomics company called council with a Y. I was CTO and co founder of that skill to do more than a million diagnostic tests and change the standard of care for so called dealing genetic diseases, and was sold for $375 million. Separate from that I've been a partner at Andreessen Horowitz, a multi billion dollar venture capital firm, where I did a bunch of investments and recruited people that helped build what became our crypto in our bio funds. So that's some of the stuff that I've done in the kind of broadly bio space separately, you know, I also took a MOOC course and massively open online course for 10 to 50,000 students got a bunch of angel investments in both cryptocurrencies and companies. So you know, Bitcoin, aetherium, etc, but also superhuman, so lambda school, um, more recently, most people know me for crypto stuff, because I've been active on Twitter for that topic. And I also, you know, sort of come into Coinbase and serve as the CTO of Coinbase until recently. So you know, you know, kind of jack of all trades, master of none. But actually, my formal training is in genomics, and I founded a large diagnostic testing company. And diagnostics is an important dimension of this whole thing, as you can see from the recent, you know, FDA and CDC stuff that's been in the news. So Bioinformatics, mathematics, diagnostic statistics, you know, those are things I do have expertise in, I'm not going to give you medical advice at all. Um, but as you know, I think you know, many papers that are written today in places like any jam or the Lancet, love an MD and in a PhD, like me as co authors, one of the clinical stuff, and one of the stats by informatics stuff and they're usually equal co pilots on the paper. So anyway, that's my background. I think I'm qualified to comment on aspects of this, especially those related to diagnosis and stats, you know, but the topics inherently multidisciplinary. You know, nobody knows pulmonology and infectious diseases and Epidemiology and genomics and supply chains, all those different things at once. So, so I don't think it's useful to be very narrowly credentials, though credentials can certainly help to an extent when, when evaluating information. That's where I'm coming from

Unknown Speaker  5:18  
preaching to the choir here, man, you're more than the most interesting Twitter accounts I've followed. For years, I've always wanted to have you on the show, I didn't think this would be the reason we get on it. We'll have to do another one later. And learn more about some of your thinking around different topics. But I think it's important for this conversation if we can work to separate facts, opinions and assumptions. And if we can try to preface things with this is true, or this is what I think and here's why I think it or I'm assuming this to make this happen. Just so we're trying to get people the best information possible. So I want to start with something super basic, right? Like I'm not well versed in this. So what's an epidemic.

Unknown Speaker  5:57  
So an epidemic is the

Unknown Speaker  6:00  
spread of a new disease, dictionary definition, widespread occurrence of infectious disease in a community of a particular time. But sometimes people use it to refer to like, you know, the obesity epidemic, which is a more kind of colloquial usage, where, at least we don't know if obesity is called caused by an infectious agent. Most people think it's caused by eating but maybe there's an infectious thing on top of that. So people sometimes use it casually, but at least in this context, occurrence of infectious disease in the community. And then maybe your next question of pandemic is when there's an infectious disease that is occurring on multiple continents for the whole world and spreading. So it's, you know, pan in the sense of everywhere. And, you know, what's interesting, just about that term for a second, who the World Health Organization has not actually declared this a pandemic, yet,

Unknown Speaker  6:47  
they're still, I think,

Unknown Speaker  6:49  
kind of, I don't know, in some mental

Unknown Speaker  6:50  
model where they either think it can be contained or for political or sociological reasons, or deciding not to call it such, simply from like a dictionary definition standpoint, this is definitely spreading uncontrollably on multiple continents. So in that sense, it's a pandemic,

Unknown Speaker  7:04  
what would cause the hesitation for labeling in a pandemic,

Unknown Speaker  7:07  
I'm not an expert on the internal politics of who I've seen people charge that it is due to pandemic bonds that would get paid out or w chose relationship with China, or for various other kinds of things. I'm not, I'm not privy to that I wouldn't be able to give an informed opinion on wide who has not declared a pandemic. However, I think, you know, a number of folks in, in, in the space who've been watching this, whether in diagnostics, like, you know, like, like my background, or, or epidemiology or genomics are kind of wondering why that official declaration hasn't been made because it's independently observable.

Unknown Speaker  7:43  
You've been farmer named the media on this for months. He seemed to be well ahead of the curve, labeling things and sort of like ascertaining what's going to happen. What is it we're even talking about what is like COVID-19?

Unknown Speaker  7:56  
So COVID-19 is the formal name of this disease, whose initial called initially called, like the novel coronavirus, and, and Cove 19 novel coronavirus, tween and teen, um, you know, denoted both the virus and the disease. And now they have sort of factor those out into

Unknown Speaker  8:13  
SARS Cove two, which is the virus

Unknown Speaker  8:14  
and COVID-19 the disease. Now, I think the reason they chose that is they didn't want to and actually, I think this is a good, you know, smart thing on their part, didn't want to stigmatize the region by calling it like the Wu Han flu or the or the China flu, like Reddit has a community called the

Unknown Speaker  8:30  
China flip. That's not helpful for lots of

Unknown Speaker  8:33  
reasons.

Unknown Speaker  8:34  
Um, you know, like, that area is hard enough hit, you don't want to hit it, like, you know, for for the rest of time, kind of blame it on them or anything like that. So I agree with their decision to kind of give it the sort of abstract name, but COVID-19 is the name of the disease and SARS cope to is the name of the virus. And so what is it? Like? Where does it come from? I heard a rumor, there's like a bat or something.

Unknown Speaker  8:59  
So there's something called molecular phylogenetics, where

Unknown Speaker  9:01  
you can actually build evolutionary trees of not just, you know, humans and dogs and cats and so on, but also of viruses and bacteria and what have you. It's called molecular phylogenetics. Because normal phylogenetics you're kind of just looking at macroscopic features of an animal, like, doesn't have four legs or two,

Unknown Speaker  9:24  
you know, does it differ or not, and trying to classify

Unknown Speaker  9:26  
them that way? Right. Those are like features. Yeah. With molecular phylogenetics. The teachers are more like, do you have an A and disposition or C, you know, jova t or a G. In this case, it's an RNA virus, but the concepts are the same. You're not using DNA, but RNA and the, the molecular phylogenetics of this, you know, coronavirus, you can you can put it in a tree with other related coronaviruses you can see that it's similar to these coronaviruses that came out of union province. So evidently there are some coronaviruses there In bats are loose labeled as such on on GenBank, where they appear to be viruses of a resident in bats from union province in China. So this particular sub strain of virus appears to be most similar to those. And so that's why people have talked about Oh, did it come from bats, you know, but we don't really know, I don't think I've been seen anything that actually nails. Okay, this was patient zero, and this was the exact moment, people think it's something in the vicinity of this quantum tea food market and one, but I shouldn't say it doesn't matter, it does matter. Because if you know, the origin of it, you know, sometimes that can give you a clue for how you would, for example, culture, the virus or, or something, you know, sometimes a clue that's not, that's not obvious, if you understand how it came about, like, you know, maybe to an animal, it spreads it is immune to it. And maybe there's some molecular biological feature, that animal we can clone for treatment, you know, that kind of stuff.

Unknown Speaker  10:56  
But but the origins, you know, people speculate

Unknown Speaker  10:58  
it's a so called zoonotic thing, or it made the leap from animals to humans, and they speculated had something to do with people eating, you know, animals at this, at this seafood market, which is not just seafood, but it has a bunch of other kinds of animals there

Unknown Speaker  11:13  
is that because you're using like raw animals, or they're not cooked properly, like, Well, you know, just eating the animal in general, or certain parts, or

Unknown Speaker  11:22  
I believe that these wet markets in

Unknown Speaker  11:25  
China are selling, I have not personally visited the one and secret market, I don't think it's going to be a tourist attraction for the year. My understanding is they sell both dead and live animals. And so you know, we're used to buying chicken, you know, there, you can buy a chicken or a fish and kill it yourself, right? And slaughter yourself bread, right? And so there's just folks who have written about how, you know, animals in that condition are very stressed out and their immune system

Unknown Speaker  11:56  
may not be as strong and they're in close

Unknown Speaker  11:58  
proximity to each other. So things could jump back and

Unknown Speaker  12:00  
forth. I can't say how that thing arose. But that's likely,

Unknown Speaker  12:05  
that's what's called it the most.

Unknown Speaker  12:07  
She said, most plausible thing, that as the default assumption right now, right, that it came from that one antique market. But with molecular genetics, I think eventually we'll be able to resolve that

Unknown Speaker  12:17  
and trace where the most recent relatives of the virus are.

Unknown Speaker  12:20  
But that's kind of an archeological dig, that may not happen for some time, till things come down.

Unknown Speaker  12:25  
How did we find patient zero?

Unknown Speaker  12:26  
So to my understanding, again, in literature, you see that in early December, you start to see patients and move on. And these patients were presenting with something that felt the community sort of like SARS, 2.0, because sorry, for something people remember from 17 years ago, from 2000, to 2003. So these patients were presenting and people are seeing more and more of them. You know, by the way, patient zero in the colloquial sense means the first human to contract a virus. But medicines, usually the index case, or the first documented patient in the disease epidemic, those aren't always the same person. Anyway, so the first documented patients were discovered in December, but if they were sick in December, then it probably means it got started sometime in November, you know, got infected around the time, because who said the virus incubates for lunch 14 days. So if your first case is December 1, the person probably got infected November, then things started compounding from there.

Unknown Speaker  13:12  
I just want to walk through this in their head here. So the patient shows up in a hospital looks like there's 2.0 exhibiting symptoms, then they do a what do you do a biopsy? Like how do you how do you test for something like that.

Unknown Speaker  13:27  
So the short version is that you take a swab collect a sample from the patient's mouth or nose, you send that to a lab and you get back a positive or negative test result. The longer version is that it starts with sample collection, you know, you can take a swab, as I mentioned, for the nose, mouth. There's also other ways of collecting samples like aspirates, or washes, which, which basically vacuum or wash material out of out of the patient's nose, throat into a sterile container on the respiratory or a virus that seems to target the respiratory system. So that's where people are typically clicking samples from, you know, the nose in the mouth. And then what do you do that sample there are a few different kinds of tests and important one is the so called RT PCR protocol that the CDC is published, real time reverse transcription PCR. As mentioned, you take these samples via swabs, then you extract RNA, can you turn that RNA into DNA versus reverse transcription, then you detect the levels of DNA by amplifying it via PCR. PCR is the polymerase chain reaction, a standard technique to amplify and detect small bits of DNA, even if they're present in a mix of other stuff, you can use it for things besides detection. On when you're doing this RT PCR, you'll have some controls in there to check against various error modes. Now, if all the controls come up right into the assay, right, a virus is present, you should see the curve representing the amount of DNA copies of the original RNA rise quickly above a certain threshold. And that shows you that the viral RNA that you're looking for, is abundant. And, you know, the actual CDC test looks at this not just for one locus, but for three low side meaning three different spots on the virus's genome. I'm one of spots I believe is for all Coronavirus and to look closer or specific to this source code to virus the virus that causes COVID-19. I'm incidentally the primers used to detect these Llosa have had bugs in them has been widely reported. Now, the primary thing you get out of this RT PCR type test is like basically 01 presence absence signal where the virus is present. And you also get some quantitative information on viral load on a measure roughly of how much virus was present in the sample. So, you know, there are other kinds of tests though, they're worth mentioning important ones, so called sequencing assays that give you not just a 01 for the presence or absence of the virus, but the full RNA sequence of the viral strain the ACS use ingenious, rather than a C's T's and G's because it's RNA. An example protocol for this is the Illumina protocol that was published to sequence RS code two, this gives a lot more information than the RT PCR protocol, as you get full sequence data that can be used for Molecular phylogenetics for looking at viral evolution, that kind of thing. Now, both these tests I should emphasize are quite standard, people have been doing RT PCR, and they've been doing sequencing on Illumina machines for basically a decade plus at this point. The main difficulty here is that the source code to viruses very contagious and dangerous. So you need to be even more careful with sample preparation than normal.

Unknown Speaker  16:18  
Okay, that makes sense. Um, so how does it transmit?

Unknown Speaker  16:22  
Okay, so first, let's start with some definitions. Um, the Arnott which basically an R with the subscript zero is the basic reproduction number, the Australian Department of Health defines is the average number of cases directly generated by one case, in a population where all individuals are subject to infection, there is no immunity from past exposures or vaccination, nor any deliberate intervention in disease transmission. So if the arnotts three, the first person effective, it passes on to three people who in turn each pass 123, more giving nine and nine people infected, and so on. So it's basically this exponential. I'm now going from that same citation, the Australian department health, the basic reproduction number are not as contrasted to the effective reproduction number, where there is some immunity or vaccination or some, you know, intervention measures are in place. So while some people say this colloquially, at least by that definition, you can't reduce the basic reproduction number by human interventions like vaccination, or quarantine, or lockdown, that reduced number would be the effective reproduction number after human intervention. And so they are not supposed to refer to what happens when a disease is tearing through a population, there's no natural immunity or vaccination against it. So like we have covered it in this, we call it the basic reproduction number. Even that basically, production number though it's not fully constant, it can be modified with things like environmental conditions, for example, you know, people think, you know, he could theoretically make the virus break down outside the human body more quickly, that that's true for certainly other other kinds of microbes. So it's not a universal constant, even though or not. Now, with that said, we kind of care about the overall reproduction number, the effective reproduction numbers, what can we do to reduce that, until well, even before we have vaccinations, we can do things like canceling large events. You know, people say viruses love crowds. They also have choke points, like door handles, bathroom, faucets, things a lot of people touch. And insofar as we're advocating, you know, campaigns of handwashing sanitizers, hand sanitizer, use face masks, and so on, we are reducing the effects of reproduction and number are. And one important point though is that while we can tell that covenanting appears to be highly contagious, the exact reproduction number, they're basically effective is difficult to estimate precisely. And it has wide error bars. And let me give you an example. with Facebook, they can go to their database, and they can pull

Unknown Speaker  18:37  
every single person invited every other person.

Unknown Speaker  18:40  
Right, so they can find this person went to invite attendee three people and happen in these specific times, they can pull that out of their database from an event that happened in 2007, or 22,009. In September,

Unknown Speaker  18:51  
right. But

Unknown Speaker  18:53  
to do that, for a virus, you don't have that data, we aren't recording the data, you don't know exactly when it was spread. So you have to kind of infer it. And so it's necessarily kind of statistical. With that said, we have some very new tools, which are really interesting. So something Trevor Bedford has shown, this is the first time where I think we're seeing like, public viral bioinformatics on on social media. Trevor Bedford is profit you w he's at tear vrb on Twitter. And his lab has something called next he has a project called next dream, where essentially, they've been the go to web interface where they've been sequencing viruses of different kinds of things and looking at infectious diseases and tracking them over time. And here's the awesome thing. In 2020, it is possible to sequence a virus, get that into GenBank of which is like a like a database for all these things, analyze that post the data online and then post a photo on social media and have that all happen, like in sub

Unknown Speaker  19:48  
24 hours.

Unknown Speaker  19:50  
The cool thing about what Trevor's analysis showed, is he was able to take two viral sequences,

Unknown Speaker  19:56  
one from a patient around January 19. And one from a patient on February 29, he could show that it was very likely that the viral strain on February 29, descended, or was closely related to a common ancestor of the one on January 19. And the reason that's important is it showed that there was likely a cluster of spread happening in Washington that was not contained. The alternative scenario would have been the patient on February 29, had a string that was related to some to a Chinese dream, as opposed to a string that mutated and diverged.

Unknown Speaker  20:35  
And every time it sort of affects somebody new mutates, but my understanding correct me here is like there's a core fundamental that doesn't change between them, which was what makes a vaccine possible?

Unknown Speaker  20:48  
Well, as a sophisticated question, I would say, it's not true that every time it infects somebody, it mutates. But it is true that because viruses are like replicating so frequently, that this virus is actually quite mutable. So it does accumulate a lot of mutations. But you're right, that there have to be certain conserved aspects of biology, or else, you know, the symptoms start to change right? Now, sometimes, often, viruses evolve to be less lethal and more contagious, because, you know, like, if you if it's like a bola, and somebody dies in a pool of blood, then, you know, they don't spread very far right? That the Ebola virus actually sort of, it kills people before they can spread it, right. But for this one, it's not obvious that it evolved to become less lethal, because actually already super contagious, and it's asymptomatic for a long period of time. So once you spread it, it doesn't care about you that much, and might kill you, or mess you up pretty bad. So that that's bad, because it's more like, you know, Spanish Flu where it's super contagious, and packs a punch. As opposed to being super contagious, like swine flu, or extremely lethal like Ebola, it's nowhere near as little as a bola, but its skill is likely to be much higher than Ebola. And so the total number of people hospitalized with portobay, maybe maybe much larger.

Unknown Speaker  22:08  
Are those other common variables associated with sort of viruses like hospitalization rate death rate, what are the other variables in that sort of equation that are the common common ones people talk about?

Unknown Speaker  22:20  
Right. So there's the there's Arnott which does kind of influence, you know, your total number of infected, right, the cumulative infected, there's hospitalization rate, there's death rate. You know, one thing we don't know, by the way, is, what the long term effects of this thing are, for example, you know, polio didn't kill everybody, but it did put, you know, some people in paralyzed them for life, even though they survive, right, FDR survived, but, you know, he was paralyzed. We don't yet know what the long term effects of this are, I don't think it's something which something that's so severe as to cause death, and otherwise healthy people within a few weeks, the folks who have severe conditions may have long term impact that we're not aware of, right, because it's so new that we don't know that long term impact is made to have impaired breathing. I'm seeing new reports that they you know, and this is a me, I haven't looked at all the literature yet something may, but it may have changed trainees, for sure reporting to may have neurological effects, things that maybe attack the nervous system immune system, not just the respiratory system, to severity is a continuum, it's not just dead, or, you know, like bounce back, it's probably something you don't want to get. I mean, there's lots of other variables that people look at. So this is kind of a derivative of other things, but the doubling rate, you know, how how fast two cases double, and this one looks like on the earth 7.4 days, integers, intermediate time constants, like the time from when you're infected, to showing symptoms in time for when you're showing symptoms to when, when you die if you die, right, truly, not everybody dies from this. So like, those vary a lot, who is recent report was reporting, like one to 14 days for from infection showing symptoms, and for those who do pass away, like two to eight weeks from symptoms to death, because that's a large, you know, range. You know, those are some of the important parameters off the top of my head for thinking about this from an epidemiological or mathematical modeling sampling.

Unknown Speaker  24:11  
that strikes me is really interesting that you could possibly have a 14 day incubation period with no symptoms, but you're you're you're carrying it and I assume that you're passing it on to other people during that time as well.

Unknown Speaker  24:24  
Yeah. So this is the really tricky part about this one. There's a lot of reports of asymptomatic spreading, and that's really dangerous. Because, you know, if you're asymptomatic, you don't even even know you're very symptomatic. Yeah, you don't even know right? Here's the one good thing about being asymptomatic is, you know, it means is are still some people who can can go out and do things right. But it may turn out that we test a very, very large number of people, because there may be more estatic spreaders than we think. And it may turn out that we need to make testing extremely routine which you Wouldn't basically mainstream genomics, you know, everybody would have, you know, right like sequencing all the time, sort of like wearables, you know, your, your, your, your heart rate and your steps and so on are being tracked continuously. Sounds sci fi, but it's actually not impossible to have, for example, a home sequencer that's plugged into your plumbing. So you send this thing, this may not be the form factor, there may be other form factors, okay, but you spit in the tank, or you put a sample into this somehow, and it has automated sample prep, and it looks at what's there, right. Or maybe it's, you know, plugged into the sewage system or something, there's a ton of technical details to work out on Sunday, that's very high level kind of concept. Sample PrEP is important distinction, different people's important. But in theory from that organic material, you could do sample prep, and then you could basically do what's called environmental sequencing, determine all the microbes and viruses that are there in that, right. And then you'd see that on your phone, and you'd see if you're getting sick, or someone in your household is getting sick. And I kind of think something like that is going to be the types of things people will build, both to measure and contain this. And it's sort of a hygiene 2.0 measure in the future. So this

Unknown Speaker  26:06  
will accelerate some sort of positive development around that, is there the test kits that they're they're using now? Are they real time? like are they know, will you be able to go to the airport before you board a plane, like spit in something and No,

Unknown Speaker  26:20  
they're not even though it's called real time PCR it's not, it's not that fast, it's um, the real time aspect refers to something different, which a little bit, a little bit technical to you basically, looking at the ratios of curves, you're not going to get it on the spot that like there's a different term for that. It's like point of care diagnostics, you're thinking of like, like a pregnancy test, or something. And I do think we want to get this stuff into a rational point of care is a little different from practice, test pregnancy, this is the ultimate where you can do it at home. But ideally, you want to have something where the point of care is at home, and you can kind of test yourself, you can plug into your smartphone. And we're not there yet with this yet, I think we're going to have to get there rapidly. And there's potential tools that that could be used for that, you know, that there's also proxies, you don't necessarily have to go to the molecular level right away. You can look at something like an aura ring, or even a thermometer and just measure your temperature. Right. And, and so then that's symptomatic, it's not going to detect the asymptomatic stuff. But it's maybe a cheaper and more widely deployable proxy, because thermometers are well understood wearables are well understood that that's relatively easy to deploy.

Unknown Speaker  27:29  
And I think that who reports had like 89% of people that were infected, had a fever. Is that somewhere around there?

Unknown Speaker  27:36  
Yeah, I don't remember I remember the exact stat of my head. But yes, it

Unknown Speaker  27:38  
is incredibly high. Like it was.

Unknown Speaker  27:41  
Yeah, that's right. Like, basically, it is, it's the most characteristic symptom, right. And that's why, you know, China, folks are asking drivers to record their temperature and so on. So we're rings or things like that. I mean, I'm not an investor, or anything like that. But, but I know that it's pretty cool. There does monitor your body temperature every time, something like that, I think will become very mainstream, you can see the variation. Yeah, that's right. Actually, there's another study, which, which I retweeted A while back, which was, um, wearables in general, seemingly give diagnostic grade information where you can predict the onset of illness from them. There's been papers published on that. So so you might get farther with wearables. And you might think you might need to go to Super molecular diagnostics, immediately.

Unknown Speaker  28:21  
Are we going to a world where, you know, you can have a company issued or rang or Apple phone? And they basically say, don't go into the office today? Because we predict that you're likely contagious? Oh, absolutely. Not with it, not with this particular virus, but with any virus in the future?

Unknown Speaker  28:37  
Absolutely. I think this is going to, so let me get the silver lining to this whole thing, because this is a dark cloud, okay. There's a lot of people, you know, we're just at the beginning of this, potentially, you know, there's a lot of people, it'll a lot of people infected. So I don't mean what I'm about to say in casually at all. But the silver lining of this is, this could be as much of an accelerant for biomedicine, as the internet was for software. For example, if you think about this from like a funnel standpoint, every aspect of the system, you know, from diagnostics to like treatment to the analytics on the population, you need to innovate on like, five or six different things, okay, but we're gonna want at home diagnostics, robots, stuff that plugs into your smartphone, we're gonna want wearables that give continuous sensing. We're gonna want pandemic surveillance, like stuff that's monitoring, effluent and sewage systems, both at home and elsewhere. We're gonna want if I didn't mention telemedicine, we need that we're gonna want medical delivery robots so that people who are really contagious can kind of be in an isolation chamber and the delivery robots can deliver them the drugs without endangering doctors or nurses. We're going to need much faster clinical trials for drugs and vaccines. We're going to need like these instant hospitals that people have built, you know, we need to feel To add medical capacity and like a surge, you know, form, still this type of thing. I mean, there's so so so much. You know, I think at the end of the day, what happens is, you know, an anti missile defense system, when there's incoming missile, it has to react so fast has reacted speed the missile, right, the human being involved, maybe too slow. So it has just tracking the soul launched the counter missile and hit a bullet with a bullet to knock it out the air and blow it up, right, like the Iron Dome system in Israel, a pandemic defense system, you know, the kind of thing the Chinese will build, I call this the, you know, the third grade wall. And then somebody actually used that term in China as well, like, you know, a few weeks later, there's the Great Wall of China, the Great Firewall, and I think we're gonna see the great bio Wall of China, okay, where, you know, they'll be sequencing and testing the heck out of everybody scan country constantly to see, okay, is a virus rising, and then quarantine that area, vaccinate that area, you know, and just Just stop it from spreading, because this is such an enormous scar on society, no one's going to forget this, that I think it's going to be a significant part of their, like, defense budget going forward. And that's just, that's just the stuff I can see. Everything I mentioned, there has been kind of happening like two months ago in chat, you know, like, like, for example, the telemedicine hospitals with delivery robots, they built that in January, right. Like, they're they've been at a wartime pace of biomedical innovation since January, which is part of what got me like, really interested in this. Because I mean, you know, the Chinese government and Chinese people are serious people, they wouldn't, they wouldn't commit economic suicide, you know, as you know, my friends, Twitter friend, Jon Stewart says, you know, like, like to simply shut down their economy, for nothing is not characteristic of them. So I took this seriously based on that, like, extremely an indisputable signal of reality. And, and the technological innovation is kind of there has been amazing. And I think we're going to need to mirror that and learn from that in the West in order to deal with this.

Unknown Speaker  31:58  
What would be the second order sort of consequences of a bio law around the country, not specifically China, but just if like we, we do a thought experiment here. And each country is now isolating itself from other countries and the spread of disease maybe gets reduced? But does like human resiliency go down? Like what are the sort of consequences you could foresee?

Unknown Speaker  32:22  
Well, so for one thing, before you traveled to certain countries, they want to know that you've had this vaccination or that vaccination. Right? You've probably seen that before, right? Yeah. Now, that's going to go to real time. Meaning, you know, within a day or an hour, before you get on the flight, you know, imagine next generation TSA, that was actually competent, you know, in countries around the world, which needs your your biological information before you can get on a flight or enter the country.

Unknown Speaker  32:54  
As in like you give a blood sample or saliva or Yeah,

Unknown Speaker  32:59  
that's right, I think that's where countries are going to go. Because screening is already happening for every traveler in India coming in like that, just that just went live. And so as countries react to this, they are going to require diagnostic testing, just like you, you know, you have to make sure you're bringing no guns on the plane or bombs on a plane, right, that could kill hundreds, they want to make sure you're not bringing a deadly virus

Unknown Speaker  33:21  
into the country that could kill thousands or

Unknown Speaker  33:23  
millions. And so I think that kind of screening is going to happen. It's happening already incentive checkpoints within China, but that's going to be rolled out. And in a sense, it's just a generalization of, you know, okay, you need X, Y, and Z vaccine in order to enter the country, right, like Singapore for a long time as required. Evans had yellow fever vaccine freakin enter the country, right? So in a sense, it's not like completely unprecedented, but the scale of it is going to be totally new. And so this is going to be a gigantic shot in the arm for every diagnostic company in the world, every medical imaging

Unknown Speaker  33:58  
company, all of those are about

Unknown Speaker  34:01  
to get like defense budget level spending. Because you can think of this as a World War in terms of its scope. But it's a world war against viruses.

Unknown Speaker  34:09  
Do you think COVID-19 is the is the straw that sort of like pushes this over or the the piece of sand I guess that piles on and topples the sand pile over?

Unknown Speaker  34:19  
Well, I

Unknown Speaker  34:20  
think it's definitely going to cause at least a recession, but likely something more severe than that. It's one of those things where there's so many secondary shocks, if you remember, like the the 2004 earthquake in the Indian Ocean, that led to a tsunami that devastated many countries in the region. And that's kind of how I think about this. There's there's the badness of the virus itself. There's the second order kinds of things that arise from it for example, supply chain shocks, right so you have all these people in China who can't go to work, they can't get to work they can't produce you know, maybe the screws for your for to maintain your radiator or the illness is even more dangerous like necessary components regions for drugs, right because supply chains really complicated people don't understand those how many different parts go into, you know, like a printer or even a laptop for sure. And or even like a container of milk, you know, you've got label and the ink and the DI.

Unknown Speaker  35:16  
D. So is that the disease causing matters that the reaction of people like the flu infects, you know, a decent number of people every year, and it may have a lower sort of death rate, but it's still very transmissible, and it doesn't cause people to shut down factories or

Unknown Speaker  35:35  
true, but but the thing is that, you know, this analogy, the flu is, is very bad. I'm in no way attack

Unknown Speaker  35:42  
on this. Yeah, no, no, I want to deep dive on this, because it's, it's the most common sort of message out there in the media, like, Oh, my God, why should? Why should we care about this more than the flu, you know, the flu is gonna affect 40% of people over the next five years, or just making that number up, but it's going to affect a decent number of people over the next five years. And, you know, we do have vaccines against it that are sort of like reasonably effective health care practitioners are trained to identify and treat and, like so. So why is this?

Unknown Speaker  36:15  
Well, we have to we have to make, you know, distinctions, right, like, you know, a common cold is not is not HIV, right. You know, there's there's, there's, there's infectious diseases, there's infectious diseases, and so analogizing it to something which is also an infectious disease is not helpful in this case is the one that there is a similarity in the sense of its friends, like, you know, the the flu, like, you know, strains, end of influenza, in the sense of people are hurt. It seems to be airborne, right, which is just spreads like the flu. People are coughing, and what have you, compared to the flu in terms of severity is not the case. And there's, there's a graph which I might be able to share with you. But we had, oh, can I push back

Unknown Speaker  36:57  
on that first thing? Like, how do I know that? Because I'm assuming and I'm totally naive on this. So we have an idiot, this stuff, but I'm assuming the number of infected people are astronomically higher than what's reported?

Unknown Speaker  37:10  
Totally. And I've got a I've got a brief one line.

Unknown Speaker  37:12  
Yeah. But if the death rate is accurate, wouldn't that reduce? Like if the number of deaths as a result of this is reasonably accurate? Wouldn't the death rate actually go dramatically down when you assume the number of people that would possibly be impacted?

Unknown Speaker  37:27  
Here's my short answer to this, which actually tweeted a while back, but now I think it applies to like Iran and Italy and so on. Okay. Move on was a normal city on December 1 of last year. And by January 23, all seven hospitals were filled, people are being sent home to die on the entire city was put under quarantine. And it was you know, that the largest, like, you know, quarantine in human history began. That was not a bad flu season.

Unknown Speaker  37:58  
So is that Chinese reaction? Or is that like a nessa necessity? Like, do you think that?

Unknown Speaker  38:06  
Well, yeah, here's the thing, like you don't I mean, it's one of those things where, first of all, Iran seems to have had a similar experience. Where I don't know if you've seen this guy on Twitter, Ali Assad, and his, you know, tweeting from Iran or Skye del Luca, Ana, he's giving stats from Italy and people are showing, you know, the number of fantasies actually on Wikipedia from the Italian government increasing exponentially in the first week. The you know, the region of Italy has been hit by this announced they've run out of beds. Okay. Now, when you're seeing things from China, Italy and Iran, I don't think this is psychosomatic. I don't think it's a lot of people who are hypochondriacs going to the hospital. Like it's the hospital, right. It's expensive. You know, it's even if you have universal health care, or what have you. And you know, I don't think that's it's not a trivial decision to go to the hospital. And and so I think that in very different societies now, we have to kind of take the warning and heed it just it sort of beggars imagination to believe that the Chinese government would have 700 and 60 million people under lockdown and quarantine because they're scared of a sniffle. That's just not what this is. It's simply not the most parsimonious explanation. You know, you can you can sort of wait for the storm to hit somebody before they'll they'll listen to that. And some people will be like, I don't think you are right. But all the evidence we have indicates that the absolute number of hospitalizations and deaths in this Houston area is very high. Even if it is true, there's lots and lots of metal cases, the end is so large red, that it overwhelms the medical

Unknown Speaker  39:42  
system. And the number of people requiring intensive care exactly the number of available beds, which further and how does it transmit so it's airborne, obviously, but it's also surfaces and well,

Unknown Speaker  39:55  
yes. I mean, it seems highly contagious. So you know, it being here. airborne, which really sucks, because you should wash your hands, you should avoid handshakes, but that won't necessarily save you because if it's airborne, right, it appears that fecal transmission is another vector. And that was something that happened with SARS, which is a related virus, you know, 17 years ago. But there's a famous infamous case of a apartment complex in Hong Kong called Eloy gardens and about 300 people there, contracted SARS, because, you know, give some of them diarrhea, and as it grows, but, you know, some of them flush and the sewage system wasn't perfect, and some of the droplets whatever were coming back up, and so people we're all affecting each other within the building. That's a more general thing, which is apartments are not biohazard containment units. For example, if you think about your soundproofing in an apartment, it's not perfect, right, you can sit in here, right, thumping bass wherever it hasn't been, you know, tested for military grade soundproofing, or whatever the ultimate level is anechoic chamber kind of soundproofing. In the same way, that's probably true that you're going to be less communicable in your apartment. But you know, there's still like, you're still connected to the same air ducts and your workplace still the same. And, you know, people are pushing the same elevator button. So

Unknown Speaker  41:12  
it's not 100% You said you had some numbers before? Oh,

Unknown Speaker  41:16  
yeah. Sorry. I digress a little bit, because we were talking about fecal transmission. Yeah, I gave the Mr. gardens example. Right. And so three times give that example is fecal transmission. Most people will want to say, Well, I'm not,

Unknown Speaker  41:28  
you know, I'm not eating anybody's poop.

Unknown Speaker  41:30  
Exactly. But unfortunately, in, in in a more dardennes, people were the realize that number one, and number two, in many cities on the coast of the US, like San Francisco, most infamously, you are definitely people are definitely inhaling fecal matter as they're walking outside. They're definitely getting it on their shoes and so on and tracking it in even in like small quantities forever. Right? And, and that is something where if you have one infected person who's doing that, there's someone that there's a guy, professor from UC Berkeley, have warned about this two years ago, actually, an NBC reporter, he's like, you know, the streets of San Francisco are at a developing world level in terms of, you know, public health, right. So the mornings has all been there, but it's sort of like the city is kind of an immuno compromised city, San Francisco in particular. And it's going to be pretty dangerous. If and when I think it may have already happened. We'll see if control committee spread is happening in SF like it seems to be happening in Washington. Washington state that is,

Unknown Speaker  42:35  
yeah, that won't be good.

Unknown Speaker  42:36  
Why are kids less, like more resilient than adults? Like it seems to almost correlate to age but younger, is least affected to older being the most affected? Is that

Unknown Speaker  42:47  
accurate? I mean, you know, one thing with all of these these types of things is, this is really for emergency conditions right now. So it is good that we have demographic cross tabs, right, we can see that, you know, the old or the elderly seem to be more effective, much more effective, especially as you get to 7070, and eight year olds, and we can see the young appear to be less affected, we can see it seems to hit men harder than women. But those are kind of macroscale demographic observations, the molecular biology of that, I think there's probably still a hypothesis, because, you know, it could be one of a bunch of different things biologically that are different between a kid and somebody older, it could be a bunch of things. Biologically, there are differences between, you know, women and men that are causing this. And I don't think we know the molecular biology of

Unknown Speaker  43:34  
what are some of the second order impacts of what's happening now. So like, around here, I'm assuming everywhere around the world at this point, PRL is like, sold out? Yeah. Are they like, their sec, you know, it's really interesting to me is like, I was at the store the other day, and I was trying to get some Purell like, you know, everybody else, and

Unknown Speaker  43:53  
to store it over online.

Unknown Speaker  43:55  
Because it's like, 300 bucks on Amazon right now. Right? So I think it's, I was thinking about how retail, everybody's like, oh, retails moving quickly. And you know, they're, they're catching up on this technology thing. And Purell was on sale everywhere, because some guy like six months ago decided that they would have a sale this week on pure oil. So not only is it out of stock and hugely in demand, it's on sale, like two for one at tons of stores. Anyway, that was just my retail observation. But what are some of the second order consequences of head centered hazard use? like everybody's just massively going to use hand sanitizer now?

Unknown Speaker  44:29  
Well, I mean, some people have said, Oh, you know, you're gonna get, you know, microbes that are resistant to hand sanitizer. That may be true. probably true. I think, you know, this is economic consequences. I'm thinking about some of different skills. So, here's a few of them that I'm thinking, Oh, I'll

Unknown Speaker  44:43  
go through all of them. Yeah, yeah, sure.

Unknown Speaker  44:45  
So I need to downplay that. I do think it's possible that likely, in fact, that you're going to get microbes that are eventually resistant to hand sanitizer if it's widely used, for sure. Still, you know, like let's use the ammo we have now and then come up with more ammo later for something Like this, I think that's probably probably reasonable to the kind of secondary cost design thinking of, here's a few of them. Number one, the supply chain shock, right, which is to say, all these places in China just shut down, lots of things are made in China, all these small companies in the US that depend upon Chinese parts, all these hardware companies, I mean, harbor companies are just going to die, many of them because they just can't get parts from from Chinese warehouses, it's like, it's funny to use the reverse analogy. If Amazon Web Services went down, a lot of sites would just go down, you know, they just do not have a backup option. Right. And this is like that the physical cloud, so to speak, you know, to kind of use a digital analogy to explain the physical world. So one, supply chain shock, number two, travel shop, airline travel, conferences, events, rallies, sports games, gone, right, like canceled, and lots and lots of countries, and maybe for an extended period of time, depending on how bad the outbreak gets. Do you think they go away? Or do you think they switch to like conferences switch to virtual? Do you think like, sporting all switches to TV now? Like? Yes, I think Well, I think what happens is, you know, historians of the future may write something like 2020 was the year that the internet actually began, right, where you have this concept of the primary in the mirror. So in the mid 90s, when the New York Times first went online, the New York times.com website was just a tiny mirror. And the physical paper was primary. There's a few articles ever online, right? Then, over time, the website bore more and more and more and more of the load. And I don't think there's any particular announcement. But certainly today, you would say NY Times calm is a primary. And paper, the physical paper should print out at a particular timestamp, that's the mirror. Right? So it gradually shifted from the physical as primary and the digital was a mirror to reverse, where the physical is just a printout of the website. Right? Make sense? And in fact, they're showing things that are digital natives that you couldn't print out, like interactive graphics, or, or links to tweets, embedded tweets, I mean, it's harder to print that out. Right, right. Um, it doesn't make sense, the data science exploration, so you start going digital native, I think that this year is going to be it's kind of like, you know, during World War Two, many women entered the workforce. And then even after World War Two, a new normal had been reached. Right? Right. This is what's called history says, In physics, it's like you apply a stimulus to a system, then you after you remove that stimulus, the system's in a different state than it was before. There's some memory in the system, right? So what this is going to do is it's going to force everybody to look at remote work as not a auxiliary. But as a primary. This is one of the grand challenges, I think, for tech as opposed to biotech to work on. And it's going to have a tangible building what I call the remote economy, not just remote work, like every job has to be remote capable, not just, you know, like legal work and programming and, and graphic design and all that type of stuff. We need telemedicine, we need autonomous delivery, we need people to be able to operate forklifts from, you know, a factory, all that type stuff,

Unknown Speaker  48:16  
it sounds like you're saying this isn't going to cause it, but it's going to accelerate that these natural sort of trends are things we've been dabbling with, because there'll be a huge health benefit, or a perceived health benefit in the future, to having things operate this way. But then what are the second order consequences of that, like social isolation? Don't we need to feel part of something in part of society and connected to our community? Like what are the psychological impacts of if everybody worked remotely.

Unknown Speaker  48:42  
So what I think happens is you get to components that all the things that are canceled, people are going to want to bring back or, you know, bring back in some some other form, there's a couple of options for that. First, his work from home is going to get really good things like 10am, office 10, and chat and so on, people are going to try there's 100 different things that you could argue are the reasons that people aren't as productive at home. And people are going to push that in VR is an obvious angle, there's a bunch of other obvious angles to try, you know, like, maybe it's a it's like a Facebook partner like thing. The tricky part is anything that's hardware related, maybe maybe tough, because supply chains will be hit, right. So there might be demand for the VR headsets, they not may not have the ability to supply them, which we can talk for, because VR companies may figure out some workaround, though. So one aspect is that remote work is going to become really good. The second thing is people are going to lean harder into social networks, and eSports. And all of these online complements are proxies for offline socialization. A third aspect I think, is that people are still going to want meatspace in order physical space and think you're going to start to see trusted communities where you're literally trusting the other person you have to have very high trust that they are taking all kinds of hygienic measures. Right. So it's like a bio trust. Yeah, it's a bio trust, right? So that's a very high bar, like, Do you trust this person to take such good care of their own hygiene and health and to be so diligent that they're not going to put you and your loved ones danger, right, it's a pretty high bar. And so, you know, I think that we start to get is, especially if people are locked at home for a while. I mean, you know, all this homeschooling stuff, right, you know, basically, you know, there, there's, the educational system has been completely transformed with all of these Children's Center. And there's only parents there. So I think you're going to have these community organizations form where a group of folks who know each other to not be infected, right, or trust each other to write, maybe trade off, and then they start, like, educating the children amongst themselves. We're using online tools, and you know, each each parent has the kids for a day or something like that, right. Um, and it's almost like a forced way of, you know, I am an internationalist, I, you know, I'm an internet person, I love all that stuff. This is in a weird way, like, like a forced D, globalization, radical forced globalization, because I'm, all the things that were benefits, like economies of scale, large groups of people, big crowds, and so on, are now big demerits, at least in real life. And so forces very small scale in the physical world. And I think you're going to get scale on the digital world as compliment to that, until we get vaccines and all kinds of things and, and at least aspects of life come back to normal,

Unknown Speaker  51:32  
right, that makes a lot of sense. What are sort of some of the other second order consequences you see to the economy, both positive and negative, to the whole team. And one thing that I do want to point out that I like is that a positive, as you know, is that governments are handling this very differently. And that will enable us to see how different things play out over time and get feedback on, like, how we could handle the next one better? I'm assuming?

Unknown Speaker  52:00  
Well, yeah, I mean, I think of this as like the decathlon for governments, because you can't be ideological about it. You might need to, for example, you might need to mix a border ship down and quarantine with universal health care for the vaccine with accelerated, you know, technological capitalism to push out the telemedicine and the delivery robots and so on. Right, right. So this doesn't fit neatly into ideological categories. It's just about competence, you know. And so who's winning that, you know, international decathlon right now? Probably Singapore and Israel, right. You know, I haven't looked at what Estonia is doing, but I wouldn't be surprised if they're very much ahead of the game.

Unknown Speaker  52:45  
So what are the what are they doing differently?

Unknown Speaker  52:47  
What are you doing differently? Well, I mean, Singapore's leader Li Shan Long is, you know, as Lee Kuan Yew son, he's not just like, you know, good at math. He is, you know, the, he was he was the Wrangler at Cambridge. That means no senior Wrangler is a guy who has the top of the top mathematics undergrad, right, right, who has a CS degree. And in fact, he has posted like Sudoku solvers on Facebook and in your C or c++ and look like he still actually knows code, right? So this is somebody who has like a technical background in Estonia as well, they've got very strong like computer science engineering, influencing their German because it kind of decided in the early 90s, to become an internet country around the time they got independence, right. And so the critical point here is something like that, oh, the Prime Minister needs to code the response themselves. That's not what I'm saying at all. What I am saying is there's a critical mass of people with scientific and technical expertise and government, who and politics in the media and so on, in these societies. And those folks are capable of doing but you know, Tyler Cowen Nicole's like growth rate extrapolation rather than base rate extrapolation.

Unknown Speaker  53:58  
You see Tyler's post on this? Yeah, walk me through Walk, walk the audience through the differences between growth rate extrapolation and base rate extrapolation?

Unknown Speaker  54:05  
Sure. So it's very roughly and this is like, you know, maybe a little different than how Tyler himself prefers it. growth rate, people model how the world can change. Basically, people think about how the world is basically going to stay the same. And so the grid three people are often mathematical, they're used to exponential growth for things like iPhones or Facebook or Bitcoin, they're looking for large deviations are often investing money. They're quantitative, they're miracle, their technical, their scientific, basically, people are, you know, and they're, they're often correct in the default that Oh, things aren't going to change. They mean an institution is almost by definition of base rate thing, because it's kind of it stayed at St ID. Right. Right. Um, but basically, people are, you know, they're about the conventional wisdom. They like mainstream things. They think, oh, that's weird when you point them to something which is at you know, old point 1% in a sense, anything that's below 50% of the population or large enough thing that doesn't have a constituency, they kind of ignore, because it's just not important enough to matter. The problem is for them, I think, is if something is growing exponentially, then it's 1%. And it's 15%. And then it's 72%. And then it's 100%. Like, you know, pretty much everybody in in media, for example, his Twitter account, and just goes like this really fast before they have a chance to react to it. And so, I think the issue is that most of the people in politics are, you know, they're lawyers, or they are, you know, career politicians, there's really a deficit of folks with technical engineering degrees. And the interesting thing is, you know, I was able to reframe this and think about this myself, I think that's, you know, on us, in the sense of folks who have any form of technical or scientific background, I think, need to as like a civic duty. And this is, you know, both for this crisis, and then for future kinds of things, we have to do journalism, citizen journalism, like a year of it, for example, per person, something like that, we have to actually get involved in politics and, and things like this, because otherwise, there's going to be a deficit of folks with that training, because one of the drivers of this is you can definitely make a lot more money outside of politics and journalism and whatnot, by if you have a technical background by going to, you know, technology or The Wall Street, and that's definitely one of the one of the factors. But what that meant is folks within those domains are making decisions without an intuition for math and an intuition for science. And you can't teach them all of that in, you know, the instant that they need to understand the rocket to deal with the pandemic,

Unknown Speaker  56:47  
whereas Singapore sort of like takes the top students and then tries to fast track their government. Right.

Unknown Speaker  56:51  
That's, that's right. There's more shared knowledge, right. If If I say, you know, oh, I can explain the Arnott and you know, the Singaporean government, I don't have to explain to them, they understand what that is, right. Yours. They hadn't heard it before they've done the spreadsheets or what have you that they can understand the implications of that? I'm not sure that, you know, our government in the US is selected on that basis.

Unknown Speaker  57:13  
What's your opinion on? How should governments respond? What should governments be doing?

Unknown Speaker  57:19  
What should they do? This is a great question. So I'm would have been tweeting back and one of the things I'm writing up is something I call the decentralized response. So there's a centralized response into decentralized response to China's response is centralized. The Chinese government actually has a critical mass of folks with engineering degrees. I think decision paying has a chemical engineering degree from Jing rot. And who Jintao, his predecessor, I believe, has a hydroelectric engineering degree, also from Jaguar. So Chinese German has Tesla's response, which is quarantine things, you know, do basically surveillance in the sense of both pandemic surveillance and contact tracing. And the government was basically driving everything. You know, certainly, like lots of private citizens were doing things, lots of companies rescue things, government's kind of in the driver's seat. I think in the US, that's not working, decentralized response has been very poor, in particular, FDA and CDC and HHS have not been doing a wonderful job. And that's because if you follow this whole thing, HHS declared a public health emergency, which you think would push them through radically. It didn't. Instead, it meant that there was now a higher bar to get diagnostic tests out, because FDA had so called emergency use authorizations that had to grant to clinical labs before they could test. NET NET. A bureaucratic process inhibited the United States from testing for a critical 30 day period from January to February and gave people a false sense of security, that there weren't that many coronavirus cases in the US. So the centralized response so far has been a total, I should say, a total failure, mostly a failure. The decent fly's response, though, I think, has shown promise. So there's these folks at UW who developed a diagnostic. There's a professor I mentioned, who is estimated number of cases. There's also the fact that the first patient who was written up in New England Journal of Medicine and January, was treated under compassionate use, which I believe use the more recent right to try pathway. I need to double check this and verify this, but there's no mention of FDA approval in gilliat statement, they talked about local regulators approving it. And this is kind of a wrinkle, by the way that you know, just to explain this for a second. So not everything in healthcare is FDA approved. clinical labs, for example, are regulated by another entity called CMS, the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services under program called CLIA. But CMS and FDA are under HHS, Health and Human Services, which is a parent agency. And in CMS, the clear program for laboratories works with local state agencies to regular lab tests. The way it works is that the lab itself gets cleared by state agency like say the California Public And then any so called homebrew test or LD t, which stands for laboratory developed test, the laboratory itself, you know, develops or creates can be shipped based on the lab director's approval. Now, of course, you need to prepare copious reports on the sensitivity and specificity of the test to build the appropriate controls all those things and that lab director has to have a doctoral degree and maintain board certification, you know that this has to be a qualified person. But in general, overall, you're far more flexibility to ship and update a lab test than a traditional medical device in a box.

Unknown Speaker  1:00:29  
Now, the FDA hasn't

Unknown Speaker  1:00:30  
liked this because it's a path that's that's been outside them. For more than a decade, they contended, they have something called enforcement discretion, meaning they have just chosen not to enforce the law against laboratory developed tests, but reserve the right to do so. And they've constantly been seeking to bring lab tests under FDA purview for so called pre market approval, which means among other things, huge time and cost to bring the test to market and you know, that FDA reviews every change you make to the test, you know, if there's software involved, which there is for many modern essays, um, you know, every good commit would have to go through something called design control, which is like the sort of bureaucratic process around revisions to to a medical device.

Unknown Speaker  1:01:08  
Now, you know, it

Unknown Speaker  1:01:10  
opinions different this, but many lab directors believe that adding premarket review on top of existing LD t regulations, really slows things down and adds a lot of paperwork doesn't add much value. Um, and so, you know, right now, those directors, usually they're regulated by this more decentralized system for life disapproval, called CLIA. It's a system outside the FDA, the FDA doesn't like. Now, once Health and Human Services declared a public health emergency over this virus, FDA actually gained a new power, the power to grant so called emergency use authorizations that here's that, you know, it's an emergency seat. And so an emergency is called high risk. And this you need a lot more review for the test. And that means FDA needs to slow things down. Right. And so it was the denial of these emergencies authorizations over the critical month of February, that kind of forced all the labs keep their hands tied. And, you know, basically all our planes were sitting on the ground all the got Pearl Harbor by the virus. And you know, why did FDA do this, because they saw an opportunity to win ground and bureaucratic turf war, to never let a crisis go to waste, you know, to use the UAE to force lab directors to send test through them. And you know, FDA has a duty to believe that they're the only good actor in medicine. And, you know, by medicine, that anything outside them isn't the highest standard. At a cultural level, they basically don't care about the cost or time there they impose on others for this ostensible high standard, in order to think that significant premarket review and bureaucracy may actually reduce quality overall, due to less ability to iterate and far higher startup costs, which could lead to less competition, innovation and substantial delays. And that's an argument that's been going back and forth for many years. But at least now the American public is seeing that in this case, the cost you have to lose and contest approval may be measured in needless hospitalizations and deaths, because under this emergency use authorization system, lab test approval was changed from the more decentralized system under CLIA to a centralized system where FDA position themselves as a bottleneck for the EPA, and no labs could get approval other than CDC itself. Okay. And tacs, health was doing 12 tests today. And that basically meant, you know, for a country of 300 million people that testing 12 a day, that's a centralized bottleneck. What happened with this case in Washington is interesting, which is a different example, decentralized, not diagnostics, but decentralized drug restriction. So typically, to get access to a drug, you have to go through an FDA process. But there are other ways to do it one way is so called off label prescription where a drug that's approved for purpose, hey, a doctor can prescribe it for a purpose B, even if it hasn't been approved by the FDA for that purpose. However, the drug company historically has not been able to tell the doctor, hey, you can prescribe for purpose D, because that would be considered an off label marketing. And so that's a weird thing, right? drug company cannot tell a doctor of a true fact. because it'd be considered, you know, like promotion for purposes the FDA hadn't approved. Right. That was basically, most very recently in 2018, I believe, rejected on free speech grounds in us first Caronia and so like ft is power to kind of centralized drugs kind of dropped a little bit there. Another aspect which is quite relevant to us here is these right to try laws that were passed recently. And I think about 41 states mean that when someone's at death's door, you no longer need to pursue, you know, compassionate use, going through the FDA, you can get, I believe, a local state, and the laws vary in different states, but a local state regulator to sign off on it and let it go through. And I believe that's what happened here with the remdesivir prescription. So that's another example of a decentralized response, not a diagnosis for drugs. Is that clear? Should I tighten that up are inseparable.

Unknown Speaker  1:04:53  
I think it's clear. I mean, I just don't understand a lot about that sort of world too. I mean, it made sense as an explanation to be I just don't know, the sort of like the

Unknown Speaker  1:05:02  
context. Sure,

Unknown Speaker  1:05:03  
yeah. Going back to sort of like, how should governments respond? Like, what is the centralized response? What is? What is it that and then what on the individual level can we do?

Unknown Speaker  1:05:14  
So I think the single most important thing that the government should do is emergency expanded, right to try laws. And without do is unblocked. So we've only seen what happens as a diagnostic bottleneck, right, making it something where he had to go through FDA approval, and also the tdcs case definition. I said he was blocking tests at the physical level, and the case definition, which says only people who had returned from China are eligible for COVID-19 testing, that twin kind of centralization bottleneck for two bad decisions that were central point of failure that's led to the, you know, epidemic, really, you know, in the US as part of a pandemic that we have now. So when you can't yell at institutions, like institutions that made that bad a call, you can't bottleneck more stuff through them. Right, okay. Um, the alternative is do or one alternative, which I think we should do the most important thing we should do, emergency expanded right to try, which gives every state the ability to clear anything related to Coronavirus. And so it's just at the state level, rather than being boosted up to the federal, there's several reasons to do this. First is to remove some

Unknown Speaker  1:06:23  
bureaucracy. Correct.

Unknown Speaker  1:06:24  
That's right, and basically decentralize it. The reason I think this is a good idea is several fold First, if this is pandemic, you know, when you have 50 states that are dealing with 50 epidemics, you just simply cannot bottleneck that through Washington, DC for approval, and everything just doesn't work. number one. Number two, is this is already how lab tests are regulated, and they've been pretty much fine. Number three, yes, it is possible that there are some things that are approved, that don't work for even that are unsafe, which is less likely but possible, you know, it's more likely that it's just kind of a placebo and doesn't work. But in this case, the cost of delay is so high, that it's okay to have some false positives, right? It's okay, because folks will die. Otherwise, that's to say we would rather have had an imperfect test, I mean, the exact numbers do matter. We'd rather have had an imperfect test during February, then have had essentially almost no testing, because at least we would have realized the potential scale of it, right? With an imperfect test. There's things you can do to mitigate. You can do if you know the false positive and false great, you can sometimes do retesting, if the errors are random, you know, to test like your notion to cancel each other out, but they'd compensate. You can use gold standards when necessary and do random resampling. And imperfect test is better than nothing for something like this. Not always math matters. But but but frequently. And so that emergency extended right to try would give drugs diagnostics, federal rule states, I think unblock a lot of stuff. And then information sharing would happen. Because if Washington state or Massachusetts or California or Texas or whatever, figured out something, then that can be propagated to other states, and you wouldn't have to bother like everything.

Unknown Speaker  1:07:59  
Okay, what else? Like should school shut down? Should government shut down? Like how do you like, Where? Where do you draw the line on this? What's your opinion? Great

Unknown Speaker  1:08:08  
question. So there's some math to draw the line on it. So essentially, one way of doing it, that's not the only way of phrasing it. But one way of doing it is for a given that, you know, a particular infection rate in the community. Right. Let's say it's, um, you know, here's a good example. Let's say there's 100 people in San Francisco who have the Coronavirus, and Samsung's population is about 880,000. And you have a office that has 1000 people, right? What is the probability that one person in that office has the Coronavirus have no idea, but you can walk me through it? Yeah. So you can you can calculate that out. And it's about about 10%. So just to recap the number, so like 100 people in San Francisco, they have the virus population about a 30,000 thousand person gathering, right? The reason it's about 10% is even though the probability is very low, you have only 100 people who have the virus out of 880,000. In SF, right? The number of trials you're doing and equals 1000 is very, very high, pretty high. And so you start to take a low probability event, but you try it a bunch of times. And then eventually, you potentially get a spreader at the office, right? And the reason you might say, Oh, well, isn't it paranoid to say one person with the Coronavirus at the office will spread it to a bunch of people? Right. That's the next follow up question. Right? Yeah. And the issue issues, there's choke points, right. So almost everybody touches the elevator button.

Unknown Speaker  1:09:37  
Right? bathrooms, elevators, common areas like cafeteria

Unknown Speaker  1:09:40  
doors, the the fridge, you know, for food, right? If you had a security camera trained on it, right, you would see those things that 400 people touch. And that's probably how if people go in, you know that these folks who spread at conferences and so on, if you go back and run the security cameras and you look at exactly how it happened. I would not be surprised if it was something like that, you know, someone washes your face in the in the restroom, they turn the hand back, you know, they're not the hand back the faucet handle back, right? And then 30 more people touch that. Right. Tada, that's a great way to get super spreading. So, so the answer to your question is we can use math to quantify this, you know, what's your risk? So just to go a little bit further, let's say there's now not 100 people in SF, but 1000 people in SF, who have the virus out of 880,000 people, right. And there's, again, 1000 people in your office now, it's probably announced more like, you know, more than 60%. Right? So, you know, I posted an infographic with this kind of calculation. Okay, so you can do it yourself, if you want. basic idea is that the second major thing that people should be doing is, they should be stopping large events, you know, South by Southwest, Houston, rodeo, large conferences

Unknown Speaker  1:10:56  
was a large event. Is it like more than 10? People? Like, is it an international event? Like, is it an event, a local city event? Like what define a larger

Unknown Speaker  1:11:05  
question? The answer is, it depends upon the percentage infected in the people coming to the event,

Unknown Speaker  1:11:11  
which we don't know,

Unknown Speaker  1:11:12  
you can, you don't know directly, but you can estimate right now. Okay. If use the analysis of Trevor Bedford had, right, um, you know, you see a bunch of people, and he's able to estimate with a cluster of, you know, median size, like 570. Right. So 570, people in Washington have a case in a religious cluster. There's other ways of estimating it, you know, based on 10 deaths. You know, in Washington State, there's probably thousands of undiagnosed cases out there, I can get into the math of that. So it's a, you know, this is what I call a Geiger counter mode, right? You can't just by feel, tell whether they're places really radioactive or not, you need a Geiger counter. Right? And when you're dealing with an invisible threat, whether it's radiation or deadly viruses, you can't just kind of Intuit your way to it, and say, Oh, that feels big to me, or that feels small to me. You have to do it on the basis of, okay, what's the estimated infection rate? And then right, how likely Am I to get is there to be somebody at this that gets it? Plus, also, this is very important. We have empirical evidence has this it's not apparent. Did you see what I've been tweeting on the parades? And? Yep, in Philadelphia? Yeah. Yeah. So so you know, we have at least two examples, one from basically 101 years ago under to you that

Unknown Speaker  1:12:27  
was the Philadelphia St. Louis Bingo. Exactly. contrast between how they responded to the Spanish flu, where Philadelphia just sort of like went ahead with everything and St. Louis, sort of like, shut everything down. And it affected Philadelphia, way more than St. Louis. Correct.

Unknown Speaker  1:12:42  
That's exactly right. That's accurate. And the same thing actually happened in muon for this virus two months ago. Right, right. One had a gathering of 40,000 families, which is a really big thing, right? And that's a great way to just take something that was a viral fire and just make it go completely vertical.

Unknown Speaker  1:13:01  
Hey, thank you so much. This was a fascinating conversation.

Unknown Speaker  1:13:05  
Awesome, cool.

Unknown Speaker  1:13:14  
You can find show notes on this episode, as well as every other episode at Fs dot blog slash podcast. If you find this episode valuable, share it on social media and leave a review. To support the podcast go to Fs dot blog slash membership and join our learning community. You'll get hand edited transcripts of all the podcasts and so much more. Thank you for listening.

Transcribed by https://otter.ai
