Unknown Speaker  0:02  
Welcome, everybody, we're just going to get started.

Unknown Speaker  0:07  
My name is Karthik and one of the cofounders of global and super excited to be doing this thing today we have over 100 people watching on just zoom alone. And this is also being live streamed directly on Twitter and YouTube. So for those of you who don't know, this is part of hacking fest hacker fest is a month long event that's being run by a global in partnership with protocol labs. And the goal for this event is to offer the developers out here, building on web three, the opportunity to play with what's possible in the Falcone theorem ecosystem. In all these developers are using the amazing set of tools and technologies available from both Falcon into their mega system and really experimenting with what's possible by combining storage and the features of smart contracts and programming languages. So for this event, in particular, we have over 470 hackers that are working on 230 different projects to leverage our coin author, we're both participating from 50 different countries spanning 19 different time zones. And it's absolutely incredible that we're halfway through this event. And we're finally seeing partners on what everybody is building on. And the amount of creativity, the amount of technical prowess and just the amount of amazing projects that we never thought would be possible in a traditional sense are being built here, I'm really excited to show and share what they will be suing to everybody. But today, this talk in particular is about a topic that is very relevant to where we are now. So we're at the midpoint for this event. And we want to talk about something that is not only just relevant in mainstream media through to some recent events, but also a pretty big theme for what our participants are working on for this hackathon. So last week, as we all know, a hacker was able to gain control of many important Twitter accounts, and use that opportunity to sort of run a scam. And gaining access to someone's someone else's account has been a very common issue in in kind of the modern web and social media platforms in general, along with things like being banned, or for being d platformed, combating fake news influencing other users behavior, figuring out what a sustainable business model is for for social networks. And, of course, the ever growing problem. That's our favorite angry people on the internet. So for this talk, in particular, today, in particular, wanted to talk about something that is very relevant to this topic. And that is obviously what the future of decentralized social media platform looks like. For hack Fs, we have over 50 different projects that are building something that tackle a decentralized version of a social media platform. That's an amazing number of projects that are doing anything from alternatives to medium Twitter, audio sharing platforms, you name it, we're seeing a lot of them being built right now. And we will see a lot of them, but to be showcase everybody else in two more weeks. But not only that, I guess the actually the theorem, foundation is also sponsoring the prize for the best decentralized social network as part of a hackathon submission. So we're really excited to see kind of what everybody builds here. So we wanted to use this opportunity to call upon some of our favorite people in the space, who've been thinking about what a feature of a social media platform is going to look like for quite some time. And now what we'll be doing today is we'll be asking them questions about what they think a good alternatives is, and what the current problems are, and actually think about solving them. And And on top of all of that, like, how do we actually think about designing something like this if somebody wants to take on this challenge? So we'll also be doing a q&a for all of our zoom and YouTube audiences. So if you have any questions that you want to ask our panelists as part of their their talk, feel free to just write them as questions on the chat. And we'll kind of be curating that list and asking them questions at the end. And without further ado, I'd like to call up telugu, who's the co founder of Bitcoin magazine, what behaviors co founder protocol labs in Balaji Srinivasan, who is a ghostwriter. So with that, please welcome all of our panelists on stage. And I really want to thank all of you for being here. So my first question to all three of you is, it's a pretty loaded term when we say we need a decentralized social media platform. So what I really want to do is just kind of have each of you tell us what do you actually mean, when when somebody says, social media should be decentralizing? And how do you interpret that as a as a phrase? And I'll kind of kick it off with the apology.

Unknown Speaker  4:38  
You're muted.

Unknown Speaker  4:42  
All right, hear me now. Good.

Unknown Speaker  4:45  
So, you know, when I talk about decentralized media, it's not just decentralized social media, but it's also decentralizing legacy media corporations. Those are tightly related, especially these days. And I think that goes hand in hand. You know, for example, when you talk about decentralizing social media, you're talking about, you know, a million hubs and a billion spokes, right? Folks being able to set up you know, federated networks and folks being able to log in people being able to sign their content with private keys, using you know, technologies like staking to help with decentralized moderation on using and den encryption, of course, to secure things, you know, maybe having the network's be pseudonymous to reduce the impact of, you know, like, like doxxing, and offline attacks and swatting that kind of implementing positive sim behavior, like having economic interaction within those networks on and you know, obviously censorship resistance, with technologies like DNS h&s, these are all things that we think about when we talk about decentralized social media. decentralized legacy media is stuff like decentralized Hollywood, for example. You know, ai video allows you to go and make Hollywood quality videos on your laptop. decentralized publication is sort of going back to blogs, but with monetization, so having paid newsletters and then thinking about ways to network them together, for example, there's a, you know, not just mastodon and things like secure scuttlebutt, but also little features like, quote, backstop net, which allows you to do Twitter style RTS, except on a blog, which are, which are pretty cool, nice little formatting. Um, and you know, decentralized media basically also means if you give individuals the ability to monetize on their own, potentially pseudonymously, there is less pressure for them to be part of an intellectual orthodoxy, where they have to repeat, you know, certain nostrums to retain their job and uncertain environment. And you're seeing that on substack, for example, or folks not only can think independently, but must think independently as they're in a competitive marketplace for subscribers. And so it's a very different incentive structure than the typical sort of, you know, Brooklyn, like East Coast incentive structure. So that's my kind of kickoff is decentralized, social media and decentralized legacy media are very much hand in hand. And in fact, I expect that the successful platforms will actually break down, you know, that that barrier, that content and code will be kind of thought of as similar. And you're going to combine kind of the evangelism, the values of the community, with the technology of the community, and that's going to be influential. We already see that in crypto. But I think we're gonna see much more of that.

Unknown Speaker  7:29  
It's a lot a lot of content to dig in. And I'm glad that you already preface that a little go into a lot more, but we'll kind of maybe let one curious perspective here.

Unknown Speaker  7:42  
Thank you. So I think I agree with a ton of what Balaji has been saying, what I would add is I tend to think about media as a thing of the mimetics of our system, right? So we have a whole bunch of humans are spread out across the globe, billions of different processes processing information, we can think of the brain itself as a different distributed system as well processing information in different ways. We're talking about the main mechanism by which we broadcast information across billions of people, which, as the internet wired us all up in the last few decades, we've managed to get really, really nice, fast properties around. You know, our expeditions today are very different than they were 30 years ago, alone, right. 30 years ago, 50 years ago, we had a completely different landscape around information flow in the world, there are certain things that are possible now that weren't possible then. But part of what's happening now is that we didn't bother to put in any way of controlling for manipulation vectors and attack vectors in the entire stack. So we've created a set of systems that can balkanize not around access or thought, but rather balkanize on on manipulation targets. So it's very easy for attackers to divide the network, so to speak, and start playing a substance of the network against each other and causing all kinds of disinformation campaigns and explicit targeted efforts to to cause problems. So I think that is a very serious problem where a number of the of the kind of first order suggestions for most decentralized media or decentralized social media systems will make that problem originated worse, not better. And so I think in order to succeed here, we have to look ahead of those problems, and start tackling those larger issues of how do you get to systems that are that are attack resistant, and that enable some distributed notion of getting to truth and getting to to getting to to detangle, what's intersubjective and what's objective. And this is this is likely going to get worse as as the ML systems perfect in terms of fabrication of information. So there's a lot of conversations around what's going to happen when when Things like, deep fakes and so on, get much orders 90 better, and so on. And so we have to think of head of all those ranges of problems and, and start building the systems now, so that they're ready for when this becomes a much bigger issue, we might transition from a period of massive convergence in the world of basically having very few versions of the stories to a world where there's so many different possible different stories that the majority of humans don't know, don't even know what to believe anymore. And they don't have a good mechanism for for achieving truth. And that, that that is a much worse Satan than where we are now. And that could be precipitated by by the by centralized or decentralized media, not taking these problems seriously. So I think verifiability information

Unknown Speaker  10:47  
getting to to inter subjective and objective

Unknown Speaker  10:51  
perspectives and, and having a way of preventing authoritarian control and, and attackers, putting pitting groups against each other, I think those would be the main things that I would focus on.

Unknown Speaker  11:04  
Yeah, and I think one of the Grand narratives, kind of in this whole discussion is this idea that the internet started as this much more decentralized thing. And it was something where you had a lot of different forums, you had a lot of different blogs, and there were lots of different things happening in different corners. And so that was how things were maybe 10 to 15 years ago. And now, like we've moved toward, and first of all, just technological centralization, and of political centralization, that results from that with, you know, a very small number of entities and a very small number of countries, governments being able to have outsized control over just the ability to influence what people see and, and talk about. And then at the same time, there's also this kind of other effects where we've moved from that kind of cluster blog like structure to the thing that I call Twitter, which is the world watercooler right. So, you know, a lot of a lot of people remember how the mindset that no Oh, the old way of doing things that lead to fragmentation, and tribalism, and polarization, all these bad things. And I think we need more of is just for different sides to have people to talk to each other. And well, guess what? That's Twitter, right? And Twitter is this wonderful battlefield where, you know, you've got low tech people, social justice people, right wing people, you know, US people, Russia, China, India, people, and all of this, all of these different tribes that often really disagree with each other and just yelling at each other. And it's not at all clear that the result is better, right? So I guess, the way I see this movement, so one of the kind of words that I like kindnesses that James James Pitts, and if you're invalidation first, and I came up with this as like, instead of thinking about cypherpunk, we think about system punk. So if system punk ideology would basically say that make the goal is just to kind of create spaces where people can do things and assume that that's enough. The goal is to think about things like what you're incentivizing what you're showing what you're creating selective pressure for me to kind of understanding that no different kinds of rules can have different consequences. And what we need is, first of all, just more experimentation, and experimentation can't happen if there's only like two or three places where anything is happening. And we also just need people building these platforms to kind of have this more explicit understanding that no, that is what they're doing. Right. And that there it is, like sometimes actually kind of hard to figure out exactly what it is that we're trying to target and a more decentralized approach. There's a lot of different ways of doing it. Like we can think about, you know, taking existing social media approaches and then of pushing them in a more decentralized direction you can think about starting with, they're gonna have a starting point of everyone having their own blog and then adding in a different decentralized, blockchain based or other whatever components and just creating this playing field where if you want to kind of it, basically kind of unbundle it and say, I got to think about the storage of the contents, user interfaces, incentives, and of choosing what users see as separate problems and trying to just make it easy to to tackle all of those issues individually.

Unknown Speaker  14:51  
Oh, that's great. I mean, I think all three of you touch on some sort of similar things here, but maybe just to kind of ask it more directly is there interesting ticular I continue to disagree with on how existing social media platforms currently run. And like the problem that that all of them face. So an apology, you have spoken a lot about Twitter and then past and what does it mean to exit it? But what exactly are some of these problems? And kind of Moreover, just do you think the problems we have right now, with these social media platforms only kind of happen at a scale when they cross the threshold of number of users? Or are they going to persist just because of how things are done? When a single company is responsible for managing a network that huge?

Unknown Speaker  15:31  
Well, so one thing I want to say, by the way, is that, you know, building something like Twitter or Facebook was extremely difficult, right? So I, I respect the folks involved as entrepreneurs, because I know how hard that was. And, you know, it's easy for us to sort of sit back and poke holes in it, and whatnot. But, you know, if you just think about the, the customer acquisition, you know, alone, just, if you're on a website, and you're sending up 1000 people a day, that's only 365,000 a year, right? If you're talking about the scale, that they're at, you know, even signing up a million a day is 365 million a year, and it's still take you 10 years, at a million a day to get to where Facebook is Reddit, 3 billion people roughly, which is insane to think about that, right? Like how this the scale of these operations, right. So, um, it's very technically non trivial, there's no way they could have done it decentralized, they were the winners of a very challenging winner take all kind of thing. And, you know, initially the value proposition that they gave, of, you know, basically free global calendaring and messaging and publication and groups and, you know, like 50, other functions, right? photo albums, all of this type of stuff, that was an amazing price relative to the status quo of the 90s. You know, when photo albums, you know, printing them and sharing them, and sending them to 1000 friends was certainly not free, long distance calls and calendars and party organization, all this stuff. But now we've moved into a realm where people have kind of gotten over that initial huge consumer surplus of making all these expensive things free, and they're focused now on, you know, the many of the downsides, right, which are include, you know, okay, we've put all these people online, and they're all attacking each other. Um, you know, in many ways, the laws of Twitter, the code of Twitter is more like the laws of physics, it just kind of governs have particles colliding to each other at high velocity on Twitter, as opposed to like, you know, the laws of a state where, you know, there's some expectation of positive behavior. I know, the Twitter has, you know, some stuff in terms of moderation, but you can't really like hit 911 and call the police in real time. It's like, you file a report. You know, like, two weeks later, somebody might look at it, or what have you, they do not have, you know, great tools for real time policing, beyond, you know, blocking and so on. Right. So it's essentially the sort of thing where they've optimized for engagement, as many people have observed, and engagement could be a burning building, or somebody's getting, you know, beaten on Twitter, right. So, I think one, one major reason this happens is you have, you know, 300 million people on Twitter who are not aligned with each other. Right. The, you know, I mentioned this before, sort of sarcastic, not surgically sarcastically, which is that, um, you know, Twitter is actually now the government of the United States, right. And, and, and of Western civilization, on no matter, you know, every every blue check, every elite in the US and the world may not have much in common, but they get on Twitter, for likes and faves and followers, and if their ethics are, you know, poor, or if they're, you know, they're incentivized just the right way, which many of them are, they'll just attack somebody on Twitter for the likes, and they will use it as kind of a real time poll, you know, people talk about, you know, online voting and the problems of online voting Well, there's an election happening every day, every hour, every minute on Twitter, right. And, you know, it's like Gladiator, you know, like, thumbs up, like, are down, right. Um, and, and this is literally how policy is happening, right? It's, it's actually kind of crazy, right? You know, the, there's many good things about Twitter, but it wasn't built to be a government. However, politicians absolutely do use it as a focus group, they absolutely do use it to determine what is popular and unpopular. They will shy away from positions where they're attacked on and so on. So, you know, Twitter is not always real life, but it but it will be and it becomes real life, right? So, um, you know, when we start thinking about this stuff, we're like, okay, we now have kind of past the age where we've got large assemblages of people online, when you start introducing a things for like explicit governance, opt in governance, where you, when you come into the social network, you're not just clicking through some terms of service, you might actually want to sign like a DocuSign or something like that, or truly go through, you know, a slower growth process where you're kind of shown the rules of this community, and then be have that stuff enforced by, you know, not just digital kinds of things and moderator's, but also decentralized enforcement mechanisms, like smart contracts. I'm on a somewhat related note, I want to talk about one's point for a second, then give, give the mic back to one, which was, you know about lots and lots of different stories and narratives. So, I do think that, you know, and this, other folks have said that certainly not novel observation to me, but, you know, we're going through multiple simultaneous revolutions, right, where we've got the printing press, you know, like thing, we're also going through an industrial revolution, because of, you know, robotics, we're going through, like, you know, a, like a dating revolution, because of Tinder, and so on and so forth. There's a bunch of these things happening at the same time. And, you know, so I think it is going to be a fracturing of the world, you are going to have something where the internet is splintering, you know, nations, it's unbundling nations, and then we'll eventually re bundle them with a bunch of migrations, I think, towards city states. And I think we're just the beginning of a period of significant internet mediated chaos. And, you know, like Foundation, I'm not sure if it's going to be 10 years of this, or 100 years of this, we might just be at the very beginning of this stuff.

Unknown Speaker  21:04  
And so what one of the things that means is, you know, global truth, where I think we end up with this is, we factor things into Oracle's and advocates. So that's a kind of a meme. Let me talk about that for a second. Then then handed over, Oracle's are cryptographically signed feeds, you know, that are incentivized for the education of prediction markets, right? So all of everybody on this call knows what they are. But the thing about them is they're a generalization of what's already happening. Many articles are sports articles are wrappers around box scores, financial articles are wrappers around ticker symbols, many political articles or other articles or wrappers around tweets. So in each of these cases, you have verbal content that is generated from the prompt of, you know, machine readable data, right, like a feed of data. Okay. And so you can generalize that and talk about arbitrary feeds of data, these, you know, cryptographically signed feeds, and, you know, claros is actually having a court case on one of them now, which is a feed of Coronavirus, you know, deaths, right. So that's, that's Oracle's and then you also have advocates, and advocates are just explicit advocates for cause, um, you know, I've got an article coming out where I talk about values texts, like a robots, txt, a values dot txt file that declares the exact causes in the sense of keywords that you are advocating for. And that's machine readable. That's what you're trying to boost the sentiment of over the long run over five years. And then you may cite the facts that are available in various fields, but you're unapologetic advocate, you know, for example, you're just a technologically progressive activist, and you want to use fusion energy to stop climate change or something like that. And now you just factor cleanly, right? There's, there's machine readable Oracle's with the facts, and then everything else is narrative and you don't like, like, try to say that, oh, it's a fact of it's not cryptographically stamped, signed and hashed and stamped on chain. Alright, so let me hand over the mic.

Unknown Speaker  23:03  
Yeah, I, I like what what a lot of that is headed, I think that there is a massive problem and just establishing trust. So the entire scientific process, for example, takes a quite a long time to even validate certain very precise and specific claims about about certain kinds of things. Right. And, and even though the rigor level of, of scientific process sometimes even lets certain fake things through and like the the reproducibility crisis, and bio is like a huge thing, and you're super familiar with that. And, and I think what we're entering is a period where the importance on of truth is getting massively magnified, because of how decentralized things are, things are way more decentralized today than they were 30 years ago, 50 years ago, and they're going to get much more decentralized. And so that puts a massive premium on truth and what backs those Oracle's is a really hard question. In that, yeah, I think that there can be incentive structure schemes to get there. But even beyond that, that that just produces an intersubjective truth, I think we need to get into, into into a much deeper like hooking into all kinds of verifiable facts about reality, right, so so people make claims all the time that are factually verifiable, and yet we don't have a very natural good process about establishing the validity of that stuff. And yet, we walk around with supercomputers in our pockets and we could be having that right so there are projects working on this kind of stuff of putting certain kinds of hardware modules so you can you can stamp pictures and video is not being tampered with, and actually being taken to a specific point like things of that nature will help. But I think we need to, we need to get to a we need to kind of evolve ahead and like leap ahead using using tech like like GPT three is a good a great concrete example of something that we could be using to start understanding the the web of claims and then trying to assess whether or not those claims are are actually true or not. So all kinds of all kinds of a NLP tag could be used to to detangle that kind of natural Language, whether we're forming and and establish what what are we actually talking about? What are the claims being made? And how close are those two truths, and how much evidence there is for these things. And I think moving media away from a, like, I often think that, you know, we program things with ASCII or UTF, eight, but it's kind of like in this crazy world where you're manipulating characters, and that's, and that's code. And ideally, you would want to be in a much more structured environment. And yet, when we pull back, and we think about how we do everything else, and humanity, we're still kind of talking about human language moving through through all of this competing medium, and with no no structured representation yet, right. And I think we're, we're vastly outpacing our building of tools for for just the spread of human word is, um, is is maybe missing misplaced, maybe what we should be doing is structuring conversation massively, and building systems that allow kind of the incremental effort and work that people are putting in to build to a really good scaffolds of claims, and, and really good scaffolds of narratives as you're describing of what might actually have happened, or might happen in the future, or predictions and so on, and turn those into testable and falsifiable claims. And then stories, write stories are really useful and really valuable in terms of motivating individuals and groups and so on. But being able to distinguish those from being able to distinguish a story from from actual factual claim is extremely important. And we're losing that ability at the moment. And I think it's just going to get worse over the next few years.

Unknown Speaker  26:33  
It's like anything to add on, on from what ASEAN wanted said, if not we can

Unknown Speaker  26:41  
I feel like on that question, they've covered it pretty well.

Unknown Speaker  26:46  
Great. So kind of just from synthesizing what all three of us said, I think there's kind of clearly two categories that sort of stand out, the kind of the first one is like, we'll have a central tentative that sort of tackle some of these problems, whether that's backtracking or, or just prevents people from being banned, so to speak. And you can have these two camps where like, you have, on one side, a decent, decentralized alternative that succeeds that sort of being feature parity with with Twitter or Facebook, and I can attract mass audiences, and you just kind of have a massive network that has the scale and the audience, to really compete against the incumbents here, or you have a version of a social network, that's alternative to this, where the audience is actually a minority audience with that kind of wants to remain there. And they want to have sort of a monopoly on their own niche, but just kind of have the ability to sort of say whatever they like, without actually facing any problems that they may get from. However, moderation is done on the other platforms, kind of with these kind of two camps out there, which one do you think is more likely? Do you think we'll have a world where we actually get a massive enough social network like Twitter, in terms of size that is actually decentralized and solves a bunch of problems that we have with with these platforms, or only a certain amount of people will move there and they'll attract only their their followers, and they just kind of remain in their small communities, we will have many of these communities.

Unknown Speaker  28:16  
I'd say well, from what we're probably going to see a lot of a couple of different things at the same time, like I think social networks that are make highly decentralized are going to be kind of minority Nisha addressed at least for some time, but you could easily see paradigm said Lv stack kind of pushed things significantly in the direction of being more decentralized, but, you know, make some compromises for practicality, like even just, you know, moving from Twitter to even things like substack, or like some people moving to personal blogs are gonna have anything in between, like, that's a trend that I could definitely see and of happening in the short term, but at the same time, it's definitely not a push all the way to, you know, anything you what you could realistically call it and a fully decentralized social network. So we'll see a lot of those things have happening at the same time. And I definitely also think that of in general, we are going to see the pendulum kind of swing back a bit from you know, the World Water Cooler to something that's a bit more fragmented with a bit more kind of room for keeping sub community is to be more closely connected, connected to each other and not be kind of put into, into collisions with the with the outside world, and everyday the way that Twitter does, but it could happen in a lot of ways. It's funny that you call it the world water cooler, because I think of I think Twitter in a somewhat different way as kind of like the world war zone. But you're right it's it's a mixture of both, you know, a library and a civil war. You know, so like, just, it's actually kind of amazing how both those are tightly related.

Unknown Speaker  30:07  
Yeah, we had a we had a few of those scares this year alone, right number of world like World War scenario type scares directly on Twitter. While we also expect the kind of water cooler, cooler side conversations happen in the exact same medium with exact same people and so on.

Unknown Speaker  30:24  
I was just so surprised that the habits Witter hacker didn't do anything more interesting. Like, you know, you could do so many things to the Tesla stock price, like getting countries. I mean,

Unknown Speaker  30:36  
it could well it could just have been mis direction. We don't know actually, what what happened actually there. There were evidently eight accounts. This I'm not sure if you saw this, but there were a bunch of accounts whose at least eight non verified users whose DMS were downloaded. Interesting. Yeah, Twitter. It sounds reported. Right. We see that the you did not that's interesting. I mean, I guess like what can the hacker do like the hacker can Okay, scan people for some Bitcoin and make some immediate tweets? quietly introduced some racist that's weed from into a politician's history that pretends to be from 2014. Yeah, yeah. Yeah. And there's definitely a lot of things that are clandestine. But yeah, I mean, the thing is, actually, that part is something that's pretty interesting, which is on, you know, something that we take for granted. The reason that tweets are cited in, in many news articles is people take for granted the fact that twitter.com did not edit them. Right. And so, you know, you basically are like, okay, who said, what, when, and often where you get from Twitter, so long as you trust twitter.com is effectively digitally signing that content. Um, now that we have you know, GBT three, now that we have, you know, some serious possible hacking of Twitter, like serious, like, you know, on a level, that's actually kind of embarrassing for them as service even again, I'm, I'm friends with some of the folks there, but kind of sucks for them. Um, it becomes something where you start to go to a higher level of security, especially for politicians, and folks who have, you know, fingers on a nuclear trigger or missile of some kind. Um, you know, one mechanism, again, this is sort of Monday morning quarterbacking, but, you know, if you had private keys, like a key Bay style thing on every phone, and you had to have a digital signature with every post, that would be something where you couldn't just hack it centrally, like, like what happened? Because you would need files that were locally on every on every device, right? So I think that we definitely do need to implement stuff like this. You know what, I'm still sad. We don't have authenticated screenshots. Like, it would be like, the technology's totally there, right? Like, if you had if you want to screenshot parts of a web page, why not just have the server figure out exactly what it would look like and just digitally sign it. But instead, you know, you can do things like Nike, if you were just screams screenshot someone's tweets like I did this as a joke about a year ago, someone would I think someone made a yet a tweet quoting me insensitive saying something that I didn't actually say. And I replied back with that, don't trust any screenshots that you see on the internet, quote, tweeted by Abraham Lincoln in September 61.

Unknown Speaker  33:25  
I think you need a verifiability chain there and like, you need to treat it like the entire provenance of the other thing, like you just if it's a screenshot, and you're just looking at pixels, like there's an impossibility that result there. But if you if you start thinking about grabbing DOM elements and looking at the entire trace of the of the of all of the interactions, then I think that is totally, that'd be a great hack, by the way, and somebody in magma could actually build that in a week or two. What one thing that I think is pretty critical to your returning to your question, Kartik, this question around? Will there be one or many systems, I think we all agree with that, I like that, there will be many different experiments, and they will have some big ones and some small ones, and so on. My impression is that we're headed towards a much better future where the data structures are going to be decoupled from, from the US. So today, when you think of Twitter and think of Facebook, you think of completely vertically integrated things, where the data, the the mechanisms, the identity, all of that is bundled into one simple system. And that's a result of the of the race that Balaji was describing, they had to move so fast to get there, that they had to just beat each other to the to the market, and how to build everything themselves. We're now starting to have the data, the mechanisms and the protocols for moving around all this data in a distributed way. And so you can have things like the all the data of something like Twitter, be presented with many different clients and many different you eyes that tuned for different sorts of things and move information in a different way. And I think that's what's gonna, I see this kind of in middle of the road kind of thing where there will be many different systems. built on top of the same information graph, and so there'll be just one information graph that's massive, that different applications are going to pull different bits about, and different kinds of assertions, right? So you could think of interweaving all of these important verifiable claims alongside the media that you attach on posts, and all that kind of stuff. I think it's a bunch of tooling that needs to be built for the next year or so. Before before those can can good thing a good thing, a concrete challenge for for folks in the hackathon and beyond is build a toy social media that our social media thing that has three or four completely different uses for it uses the exact same data structures and the exact same identity. And so you can now start playing around with what will that look like? And how to how to start introducing different different kinds of verifiability.

Unknown Speaker  35:48  
By the way, just on that topic, I think something that is massively still under appreciated by folks outside our space, is the extent to which something like that already exists in the sense that, you know, Coinbase, and binance. And, you know, blockchain info and BTC, calm and so on, are all different layers over, you know, the Bitcoin and Ethereum blockchains, right. Like, these are data structures that are updated, and then you have different views on them. Some are block explorer view, some are exchange views, some are wallet views, and so and so forth. And one way of thinking about the innovation of blockchains is, you know, they're not, you know, they're quote, a database, yes, but they're a database with an unlimited number of simultaneous clients that have root privileges, you know, they can, all right, they can all read the entire thing. And your idea of having six different interfaces, there's another great paper, by the way from 10 years ago, that I think is worth sort of dusting off and revisiting. So out of Stanford is called Mr. privacy. And their proposal was essentially, to use email as a transport layer. But to build totally non email looking interfaces on top of email, so that you would use inbox files locally. And you'd use SMTP, or IMAP, or whatever, as a transport layer between. and but you could render it totally differently, like every click of a mouse on, you know, for a like, or something could initiate an email, for example, right? Now, eventually, you'd want to optimize that. But as a V zero, that's not a completely stupid thing to do. Because there's 1000, you know, tools for working with, you know, email data and whatnot. So that's kind of a way of talking about where you're where you're talking about one.

Unknown Speaker  37:30  
Absolutely, I think, yeah, I mean, kind of, we've seen flat files as data structures emerge, as well, and what other cases too, but uh, not to kind of spend too much time on this thing. But actually, Twitter had an API that was open for everybody to use. And we actually had multiple clients that have their own different features and view layers. But kind of just the nature of the business prevents from from that sort of the fragmentation. So I know we already kind of talked about it, or we've actually been asked is, is user fragmentation or content fragmentation a bad thing? And I think we both already have sort of answered that it's not really a bad thing, because some is net positive here. But maybe just to touch on the fact that assuming that those two camps existed, like really a lot of fragmented communities, and then or the other sort of side, which is a massive alternative, that is, in a way, a feature complete to existing things that you already know, what exactly do you think is kind of the the reason or the incentive for somebody to switch over to the alternative here? Like kind of the common sort of phrasing coming from is I'm going to take the other side's side of this argument is why do I care about being being banned? Or, or being d platformed? If chances are, like, one out of 10,000 people actually suffer from these things, and I should not have any problems? What's my incentive to actually look at these communities or alternatives? And what do you think actually gets them gets people over the hump of trying something out? That's, that's not the common

Unknown Speaker  38:54  
I would say one simple dumb answer is just like, there's a lot of things that you might want to say that kind of Twitter the format doesn't let you say raised like tweet storms are much more limited limiting than, you know, writing a blog post. Potentially also, you might not want see your whatever you write to be kind of very easily kind of quoted and kind of spread around or spread around the echo chamber, like obviously, anyone can go and screenshot it, but even like just the fact that it takes like an active screenshot and cut and cut and paste effort instead of just clicking a retweet button might be it improvements enough. And, and also just the fact that if you control your own platform, then like you have a lot more ability to customize and you even have a lot more ability to customize, like, what kind of discussion happens around your content. So like, there's definitely a lot of people for whom like none of those things kind of really matter too much but like you paradigm doesn't have to appeal to everyone immediately, right? So as long as it offers concrete benefits to some people at the start, that'll be enough to get it started. I think

Unknown Speaker  40:09  
we're also in a period where building the right thing is more important than building them getting a bunch of users meeting, it's not that hard to get a lot of people to try things out there, the internet is so big now that you can find 1000 to 10,000 users to try something. Just you have to put an effort and so on, and the pathway said there. And if you have the time, you can you can make that happen. The bigger question, from my perspective is, what is the right thing to build, and you have, like all the layers, we're talking about so many different things here. And, you know, pretty significant tech team will have to work quite a while to to, to build out a lot of the things that we're talking about, at least to work in the same really nice seamless way that the, we're used to from the current interfaces. And so I think, you know, a very high leverage position here might be Think of how to decouple the systems and make the work of one group interact with the work of another group. Right. So the unbundling that we've been talking about, and in terms of separating the layers, think about the data structure separate from the UI separate from the mechanisms separate from the incentive structures, like all of that kind of stuff, if you can, if we can build good systems that decouple these so that one group might come over long, bundle the piece of some set of pieces together, turn that into a good product, and then maybe get a lot of adoption around that one product that will enable us to reuse a bunch of the work that's happening, the fact that if you want to go and build a social network, right now, you have to go and replicate everything, all of the work that Twitter has done is kind of crazy, right? Like it's you and you can't even really compete with the level of, of product quality that that that a team like that has simply because you know, there's whole large groups of people working on optimizing every single aspect of that interface, in mobile, across a bunch of different platforms, and on the web, and, and so on. And so it's a huge gargantuan task, if we want to actually get something that to be broadly used and be really good, I think we have to focus on building the right thing, get, make sure that it's the right thing, and then put a bunch of effort on that. And so I think it starts with separating the pieces, getting layers, right. And then making it very easy for teams to come together, try experiments, make good products. And once we find a really good one, then put a lot of energy behind that behind that. So I think it's a lot of experimentation for now, as opposed to saying, Hey, I have my one version, I want to try and get as many people using it.

Unknown Speaker  42:30  
Now it's great. So

Unknown Speaker  42:33  
I think there's like two other main pieces I want to cover before we move on to the questions. Kind of a big theme here is that, and from what you just said, One, the this sort of sets us up right for the part where there's clearly two groups here, from our from our audience from the hackathon. And just in general, like the the large participants here. One is somebody who's thinking about solving this problem. And the other party being somebody who wants to use a solution that solves this problem, when actually kind of just take aside here for like, if I'm like a provider's making a service that solves a lot of these issues. What exactly should I be thinking about? And kind of what are some of the solutions that I think need to be kind of worked on? So I just have a handful of question want to ask and wanted to see what what you think, are the right approaches to something like this thing. The first one is in the world where I have to make a alternative decentralized version of my form. Our AI and ml algorithm still useful in terms of helping people discover content, rather than checking Twitter's discoverability is actually a useful feature.

Unknown Speaker  43:31  
So I think, to answer that, AI and ml algorithms can definitely be valuable. But one kind of nuance that's really important is like, who's running the AI and who's choosing the AI for whose benefit? So like, the two natural paradigms are right? Like, either I'm running an AI client side that can kind of filter content for me discover content for me, like to help me write things or whatever. Or the other alternative is that there's some AI that's run inside of some centralized platform like Twitter, and that kind of just make simple decisions on whether prioritization moderation or what or whatever else on our behalf, right. And the challenge with centralized AI is basically that, like, if it's not open source, nobody's going to trust it. But if it's open source, then it's exploitable, right? Like, the problem is that like, what we want out of content on the internet is just so subjective, that like, you can't easily just create a kind of tight formula and you definitely can't create a classifier like there's even an entire science of like adversarial AI basically, is dedicated to kind of taking existing classifiers and kind of coming up with ways of basically breaking them and make something that's just a dog with like 45 pixels changed or convincingly like a cat. And so now they're kind of stuck stuck in that trade off right and the issue thing is that no, we have a science that's pretty much exactly about this question of can we create algorithms that are unexplainable, and that science is called is called mechanism design, right. And so if we look at mechanism design, where you basically say, you know, we have algorithms and these algorithms even provide incentives to participants. And a lot of the time with the way that that approach ends up working is the central kind of logic ends up being relatively simple, and it ends up being kind of relatively static, but then there's kind of all of these, you know, potentially people, potentially bots, potentially some of both, like kind of swimming around at the edges, and kind of contributing all of their information and inputs. And you have, like, basically, this design where all of these kind of intelligent actors around the edges like and have some kind of incentive where like, if they provide good feedback or good is, ideally, hopefully kind of directly defined by providing value to the users, then they get rewarded. And if they don't, then like it penalized. So like, that kind of approach is even just watching as themselves are kind of a good example of that paradigm, right? Like, you have a very simple mechanism at the core, you know, if you create a block that's part of the chain, you get two E's plus transaction fee is if you create a block that's not part of the chain, you don't get your two E's, and you burn a bunch of money building the block. And so if we can make things look more like that, then that would be one kind of example of kind of a way out of that kind of, out of that conundrum that lets us have you know, have things like AI's without having them be, you know, either kind of unaccountable secret police or just get completely exploited to Ellison as someone runs a, an adversarial, ml ml thing on it. And but this is still one of those areas where we need to think more about

Unknown Speaker  47:02  
Linux license, and maybe I'll just kind of we'll do a round robin these questions because I have a lot of soft parts for this theme as a somebody who wants to build a service like this. So it's gonna be for one. What would be an actual good sustainable business model for building something? If I'm, if I'm offering this as a service, whether it's open source or Hostgator? or preferably not hosted? What, uh, what can people do if they're offering this to somebody else?

Unknown Speaker  47:28  
Yeah, I mean, I think I think we're seeing a lot of rare good experimentation with Mr. molars like opening sounds like it's a great idea. And we have seen that a number of folks are actually making that a viable business model. So that could be something something like that, I think for the platform developers, you know, you can go a bunch of different routes, but I think these days is not that expensive to develop things for the beginning. So getting some funding to develop this stuff, and get a team together to actually try a bunch of experiments and find the right thing. Maybe the couple that from the from the business model, meaning figure out what they're figuring out the structure first and explore a bunch of different business models. But if you kind of raise funding in a kind of a startup style sense of, hey, here's a business model, here's what we're gonna go build, and so on, people will be very locked into that. And I think right now, I think we're seeing need to see a lot more experimentation with different business models to go up to offer options. Some some ideas include, using using tokens to mediate the the, the meat processing, right, like an immediate user token native to the to the platform itself. And and the developers can can grab some of that token as part of for developing the platform. It could also be, you know, in the substack sounds taking some portion of the of the revenue

Unknown Speaker  48:41  
that that publishers and making

Unknown Speaker  48:45  
I think they're, you know, ads are not going to go away, as it are such a massive Lee valuable part of the massively valuable business and ad solve this discovery problem. So as aren't going going to go away, can we come up with a much better, higher quality, more humane way of doing ads that don't leak all of your information to a ton of parties? That might be like a very interesting, valuable thing to do. If somebody figures out that out, then that could be plugged in into a bunch of different different systems. So um, so I think like a like, I think a lot of business models are going to be similar to the existing ones just kind of translated into it into this new world. Where you get to play with within disruptors.

Unknown Speaker  49:23  
I think it's going to be I think something's very promising as tasks. where, you know, like, there's more and more traction for bounties, certainly, you know, we did this with earn, and it was actually I think it's pretty successful with earn, on but also on, you know, get coin that those are getting traction on Twitter bounties those are working on. And one way of thinking about it is with an add on, you have to pay the platform for a user's attention. With a task, you pay the user directly for their attention, right. And that's just a better model. If you can make it work. The thing that historically has made that difficult is doing small payouts to millions of people with different banking around the world, and so on and so forth. And crypto now makes that that possible. So I think that that's one potential thing that could scale to billions or even trillions in, you know, payment volume over time.

Unknown Speaker  50:18  
No, that's great. That makes no sense. We're seeing that as a theme in general. And this also scales really well to smaller communities. So maybe a question for you Balaji is, in as somebody who's thinking about making a service that solves this problem? How should they be thinking about sort of moderating and customer support and just, in general, like managing a community of users? Like what responsibility should they take? Or what actually what are the ways to think about handling those issues?

Unknown Speaker  50:44  
It's a great question. You know, one thing I tweeted a while back is, uh, maybe centralization is also under explored in the design space. Right. So, you know, in the sunset, you know, we talked a lot about decentralization, that's very important. But you know, Alon, for example, is 40 million followers? And what if you could ask them to do something? What if you could tell them to do something or else they wouldn't be able to follow him anymore? Right. Um, and or offer an incentive to do that thing, right? You know, there's different levels of, you know, request, you know, and so on. And I think you can imagine different communities that have a very digital community a very different subcultures, like, you know, for example, a productivity cult, where to log in each day, you actually have to take a selfie of yourself working out or something like that, right. So I think that you're going to see more more kinds of tools like this for kind of not just moderating speech, but behavior, you know, whether it's staking, whether it's, um, you know, frequency of posting, whether it's quality of posting, whether it is type of content, I think we're really under explored in terms of mechanisms for both centralized and decentralized moderation. And, you know, if we go to this model of a million hubs and a billion spokes, on and give tools for folks, you know, ideally, you have kind of some central server, that's very easy to deploy. And then and configure, you know, like, like the Linux of social networks, basically, and mastodon and others are kind of like this, but they're not yet there, you know, maybe you may need to integrate crypto with it, I think then you start to get a lot of experimentation.

Unknown Speaker  52:23  
And kind of just to put this site on what this may look like, for for any user who's using a platform like this. This is kind of flipped the model of consuming content, where I now need to know what I need to follow and who I need to follow, like, kind of going back to the way anyone from like stuff stacks to like 20 years ago, or even 10 years ago, how RSS were dominant. I kind of knew I wanted to follow I want to just look after the new content that they publish. Is this kind of the world we default into? Or do we do you still think either of us still think that a will we'll just still kind of rely on the same distribution discovery mechanisms to define new content? That's interesting.

Unknown Speaker  53:03  
I think curation is always going to be an important and valuable part of the picture. And you don't, not every, I think curation will be both machine oriented and human oriented, right. So there will be curation that happens from people curating other other groups, and there'll be individual curation that you do on top of that. And then there'll be all these algorithms that that drive content your way, because it's a market problem. At the end of the day, there'll be a lot of different options and solutions, and we'll get a good evolution to finding good finding out the right thing, meaning a successful platform has to solve this problem. So so I'm not too worried about about content discovery that much in that, there'll be there'll be some, there'll be good mechanisms for it in a successful, but we'll have to figure it out.

Unknown Speaker  53:50  
I guess we'd be like, knology, do you think that is this type of alternative favors? content creators more than consumers?

Unknown Speaker  53:59  
I think actually, you know, people have asked, how does this you know, how does decentralized media get going? And you know, substack, and paid newsletters, I think, is how it starts, we attract the power users, the folks who crucially are migrating off of centralized social media, for varying reasons. But one that's kind of cross ideological is the lack of control over their brand and monetization, you know. And so they're, they're not making money on social media or, or they have to invent Baroque ways of doing it. They don't know if their content is getting promoted, and so on their lack of control. So you get the migration, defection of the elites, the power users, and over time that will pull others because those elites are able to evaluate technologies, they have an incentive to defect and to leave, right. That's, that's, that's, I think, one one aspect of it. Um, there's another thing in terms of curation, something I've thought about is a feed where you know, you have a few different things For example, people can only comment or vote up links that are at least a week old. You know, and that actually is a useful thing I, you know, I, there's relatively little news unless it's like, you know, a burning building or something like that you absolutely must consume today now, right on, and soon there's a lot of attention around it. But it's often invalidated by reports a day or two later, you know, the truth gets its boots on. So that's kind of one method. Another method would be to require multiple confirmation stuff, put it you know, whether in a, in a decentralized court system or something like that. So I think curation also, there's a lot that we can do in terms of innovation, if we just go away from what is just new and popular to maybe what is a little bit older, but true.

Unknown Speaker  55:45  
That's fair. And I guess a question and attack. So I mean, if people are worried about being, being sort of banned for what they say, or there's some beliefs, or just not able to monetize or being able to say something without anonymously, rather, and having a solution that lets you do all these things, what if we actually end up with a world where the winning platform is 4chan? It's most of these criterias. It's kind of like a network that is somewhat centralized, but also has very integrated moderation, do you think I'm actually going to prevent these subsystems from performing in DC the dominant,

Unknown Speaker  56:21  
so I feel like 4chan type thing. So a great example of the difference between an anonymous and pseudonymous Right, right, 4chan is like much more on the anonymous side of the spectrum. And I think the difference is that, like, you can focus on decentralization in the sense of like avoiding other people's negative incentives. And that's definitely kind of part of what's going on. But the other important thing is that kind of actively creating positive incentives, right. And if you don't have any notion of persistent identity, then you know, you can't have positive incentives, because like, there's no persistence thing for those incentives to hold on to. And there's a lot of ways in which you can have, you know, persist that identity, persistent reputation, even in ways that are very strongly privacy preserving, I mean, you can have pseudonyms, but then you could even do crazy things, like for example, you know, you switch to a new suit, and then every two weeks, but you would have some zero knowledge proof that links your pseudonym, to some older pseudonym. And you don't really know which one, but like some kind of reputation score carries over. And you could even have negative reputation scores carry over potentially on someone, another research came up with a way of doing that in a privacy preserving way. So there's some, like, there's a lot of room in terms of designing incentives to encourage actively good behavior, and I can send this can be in a lot of things, you know, it can mean like micro payments, and monetary rewards, it could be in just a reputation, and just having more people see your content, and you know, could've been a lot of things, but there's a lot of things that you can do that you can do there that I think are fully compatible with the idea that no people should be able to kind of post under identities that are separated from, you know, the identities that they have use for, like personal life and work and so forth.

Unknown Speaker  58:25  
Right, and the last thing I want to cover before we move on to the the audience questions is, I mean, a lot of hackers are building these central social networks as part of that confessors, over 50 projects that are building adcenter social network as part of their submission. And what I wanted to do was kind of have each of you just list any popular services or frameworks or just in general, like solutions, you know, for each of these things that people need to solve for, and have an alternative to as like a list of ingredients that they can use right now to, to build the project. So I'll name some high level categories. And if I, if any one of you without any kind of me picking on somebody, just kind of named the best weakens, you know, that can help with that. That'd be great. And we can move on to the audience side. So first off, I'll start off with identity verification, what are currently really good alternatives that are decentralized and also help with identity verification of President.

Unknown Speaker  59:18  
So I think like when people talk about the identity problem, they talk about it as simple as just one big lump. But really, there's like, there's a few separate problems that are lumped together. Right. So one of them is just the kind of persistent access to an account problem, which is like have some identifier, it could be a long random number or whatever, where if you set up that identifier, you have the ability to maintain that identifier for a long period of time and like write posts, using it and so forth. And the mean like you can obviously do that with a private key. And like for example, if you have meta mask or IQ and he is aetherium. wallet, a new browser, then you can just use an aetherium address some as an identity That basically is like, it is a cryptographic key ultimately. But then the challenge with that is that no people can easily forget their key is lose their keys. And if you need some kind of backup, and like a lot of especially earlier decentralization people kind of don't take this problem seriously, right? And they say, Oh, no, no, we should just require, you know, everyone, including the grandma, that's when we started using computers five, five or seven years ago to like, be able to understand what a paper, you know how to use paper wallets, and all the security things around them. But the chant like, I think we do need to kind of teach take seriously this, this problem and the problem of making like, basically coming up with ways for people to recover their account if their account gets lost. And this is something that even Twitter does badly, right? Like, even just, or even Google, like all of these Silicon Valley tech companies somehow do badly, right? Like, if you lose your account, so you know, you have to appeal to customer service, and sometimes they just never respond to you. And sometimes, no, like, more privileged, people can have kind of private channels where they can get listen to more, and a lot of other people just don't have access to those kinds of channels at all. And it's just a problem where people think that, you know, you can just talk to kindly human, and they'll figure it out, but often, it just isn't true. And the thing that I'm always bullish on is social recovery, right. So this is your idea where, you know, you have like, some group of friends, like you could be, you know, somewhere between five and 10 contacts and say, any two thirds of them can reset your account, right? And kind of the core of this idea is basically that, no, there there exist kind of real world, like some kind of links of trust between people, like, you know, like, no one kind of literally, is kind of a mountain man, the, that literally Trust no one except for, you know, themselves and the past versions of themselves that created some, some private key. But, you know, we do have people we can trust and like, in reality, like if, if seven of your 10 friends betray you, then that just means you're really, really bad at choosing friends. And, you know, the number, the number of people without problem i think is like, smaller than the than the number of people that can't see it, no trust centralized services. And so yeah, like, if we can just make sense. Even just social recovery, easy to use, and no smart contract wallets, pick your own of recovery contacts, you can even make it privacy preserving for aetherium, there was a tip for that, I think it might be to five to nine or something, I forget the exact number, then you have an aetherium smart contract account to represent your persistent identity. But it's kind of more robust to failures on the human side than that of cryptographic keys. So it looks like long digression, but I'm a huge fan of social recovery. So I think we just it needs to be obviously pumped until like lots of people are using it. And then so the other half of the identity problem is, well, there's two other halves, right, one half is like proving real world properties about yourself, that are attested to by authorities. Right. So like proving you're a citizen of some country, proving that you've graduated from some University at all those things. And ultimately, you can see, centralize those, because they just fundamentally depend on a centralized authority. But what you can do is create a kind of common standard and common platform for these other stations to happen. And then the third identity problem is this unique human problem, right? Like basically proving that, you know, your accounts represents a unique human and is this an accounts with this kind of tick is an account such that, like, one human can only realistically create one, or maybe a couple of them, you can't just like create an unlimited amount of them. And even if you have a lot of money to burn, and like I've written a lot about why this, this problem is really important for governance, for example, why, you know, plutocracy is bad, as I've said on my blog many times.

Unknown Speaker  1:04:08  
And there's an interesting combination of kind of centralized and decentralized approaches, and others, all of the traditional kind of centralized, you know, phone number, Id KYC, whatever if your applications and then there's things like bright idea, that would be splendid, basically trying to do like social network verification, and random inter personal verification, all of these things. So, Nick, we're definitely seeing a lot more experimentation in some of those areas. And like even get coin grants and quadratic funding is really doing a lot of just kind of pushing experimentation in that. So I'm looking forward to seeing what works and what sticks with me.

Unknown Speaker  1:04:48  
comprehensiveness,

Unknown Speaker  1:04:49  
just some some some like rapid fire technologies to go with that. I think we did a great job covering the a lot of the space of identity problems. And yeah, this is like a huge Huge nest of interrelated issues that are difficult. So I think people should check out Newport, that project did a ton of work at detangling. A lot of a lot of the issues around identity, check out ion which is a an application using using D IDs, which are decentralized identifiers, D IDs quickly becoming the way to to think about verifiable claims about it. But it, there's a lot of different pieces of tools and so on that use them, you should check out, of course, you should use DNS and level domains and handshake and block sec and all these other kind of domain name mapping to like keys to names to, to content, things, those can be extremely useful. Things like civic things like just all the wallet providers meta mask, and so on, you can you can use those to to store keys and to to to have these pieces of identity, I think we need to return to the idea of persona, which was like this, this Mozilla effort to create identity directly dating to the browser, I think the the operating systems that we had coupled identities for data, closer to kind of the identities for logging into the device, I think that would be a good one, the browser might be the right place to put it, or the OS might be the right place. To put this, I haven't seen that much in terms of experimentation. keybase is probably the closest thing. So people should check out that and how that works. Unfortunately, cubasis is now going to zoom. So maybe, maybe that'll keep running. But potentially it could be thinking about a decentralized case type of type of thing. And then thinking of baking that into the browser and the OS, that could be a really useful, really useful thing. And so then on top of that, I would say, three box in terms of coupling identity to content.

Unknown Speaker  1:06:49  
And this, there's a few other a few other tools. But

Unknown Speaker  1:06:53  
yeah, there's a ton of these different pieces, spend some time exploring the space, figure out what you need, and then just use what you need. For now, most things are going to end up with D IDs, it looks like that, that the DD is like a pretty good a good a good convergence point. And then just think of a way to hook it into the browser, either through a wallet or something like that.

Unknown Speaker  1:07:12  
No, that's that's a great lesson. And maybe for ballsy. I know you recently published a post on how to set up your own substack through ghost. And I guess the question I have for you is through that process. Could you think about what the trade offs were for different other alternatives outside of gilston? And also, if you were to make a list of what was missing? And what you would need probably solutions more like what are some of those like features?

Unknown Speaker  1:07:35  
Yeah, I mean, the biggest thing I wanted to do was have people set something up to give them immediate benefit. And you know, a lot of lot of crypto things are cool technologically but you know, that they aren't like, you know, immediately world class, the obviously best thing to do. It's like you're doing decentralization for the sake of it. Right? I think we're starting to come out of that now where crypto is actually being used for some really interesting projects, you know, handshake and the prediction market stuff, and so on. Um, what, what I would like to see is somebody maybe, you know, maybe a viewer who's looking at this modified ghost to accept aetherium subscriptions. In particular, you know, V, one would just need to do that. And the two would be to make it possible to do dynamic newspapers, where you can do bundles of individual ghost websites. And you have like a, like a paid RSS feed, for example, where you, you know, let's say pay some aetherium to it, you get a custom URL, which is a custom RSS link that maybe just works for you. Or it could be global, also, you know, whatever, and you just don't share it without, you know, like, like honor code or something like that. I just like, you know, you wouldn't, you could forward the emails you get from substack. You know, you could repost them. But people don't usually do that, right. It's just kind of honor code. So you, you do something like that. And then you've got something very powerful, which is you have crypto being used for something novel, where it's not stripe, that's your only payments mechanism for these these kind of paid newsletters, nothing against stripe, but it lacks a flexibility.

Unknown Speaker  1:09:15  
Nothing is a lot of sense and kind of with that just kind of also keeping time in mind. I want to move on to the the audience questions here. We have a lot of list of questions that people submitted, so I'll pick a handful of them. And I also want to be respectful of the time of our panelists, but kind of jumping over like a really interesting question we got the question is the last wave of centralized social media just gave us a lot of new verbs and how we communicate whether it's retweets, tagging your friends likes and faves. As like a speculation What do you think will be the new verbs for the decentralized social media landscape?

Unknown Speaker  1:09:52  
Depends on the name of the product.

Unknown Speaker  1:09:57  
Did you take any there there any fundamentally new concepts that come in When when you have a system that is more distributed, so to speak,

Unknown Speaker  1:10:05  
I think signal boosting is a is like a good term that I think will start appearing more in either through tokens or through that behavior stuff that Balaji is talking about giving giving weight to something. And boosting I think will be, will be a term Oh, that's great. Yeah,

Unknown Speaker  1:10:24  
I think also like hosting, you know, like, everything associated with operating a hub, you know, from hosting to forking the community, to banning all the moderation kind of verbs, I think, come to the fore. You know, these are things that already exist on Reddit and what have you, but I think those become, you know, more important. And, you know, you start to see just more folks doing that kind of thing.

Unknown Speaker  1:10:53  
To me, you

Unknown Speaker  1:10:55  
know, just gonna say some verb for like, let's check. Let's check what augur or Omen say about this question. You know, by the way, one thing I want to just point out, this is maybe very obvious, but I think it's actually pretty interesting for us. I'm done. Right, you could turn. So one of the advantages of substack is, there's 100,000 people on there who have credit cards. And so a new publication has a built in network effect, or what have you, right? I'm done right? If you had an aetherium, Id with crypto in there, you start to get a network effect among things where all the theorem users or all Bitcoin users can go and sign up for a site. And you have a similar kind of network effect, where you would prefer it to be log in with aetherium, or log in with Bitcoin. And then you can pay and you've got identity, and so on, and so forth. In some ways, that's an obvious use case. But I think it rotates it a little bit where, you know, you just need a community of those folks who will all go and just click to sign up at a site, and you start to get a network effect. And then you start getting more products built around that core. And the critical thing there, of course, is that the account and the money are both, quote, decentralized. So they're not associated with amazon.com, or substack, or what have you, but with a decentralized community. And then you can also have something where you have an aetherium wallet, for example, or bitcoin wallet, where you are pushing, effectively notifications, and you get paid to so you know, you have your let's say, now you get to a future where there's enough apps that they want to go and attract Ethereum holders, right, then they pay a task to that wallet, which is a known purchaser of subscriptions. And now boom, a low offer or task appears, and you can click to go and purchase it. Right. So So that's, you know, sketch of something where you can start building, you know, a two sided marketplace around holders and account holders on one hand and services on the

Unknown Speaker  1:13:01  
other. Now, it's really cool. I think one of the other sort of benefits of a system like this is that you actually also know who the audience is that already subscribed to a set of ideas that you already have. And you can even use series isn't subscriptions as a acquisition mechanism to offer them anywhere from discounts to repackage content, or are just given access, because you already know their identity. And if you know that they can check for these other two subscriptions, they may have access to more content from you, because that becomes your actual way to understand or really cater something to them. Another couple companies working on this thing as well. So that's a really interesting concept. Because you touched on this thing in in one of the earlier answers, but how do you think like, these centrist social media platforms can handle hate speech and managing venues? Like what is kind of a more practical way of

Unknown Speaker  1:13:51  
doing factchecking?

Unknown Speaker  1:13:53  
Well, so you know, so let me take the second one first. So in terms of fake news, that can come from centralized sources, as well as, you know, random blogs, like there was a lot of incorrect news reports that were published by, you know, the Washington Post New York Times BuzzFeed, recode, wired, etc, during Corona that mostly have not been retracted right. to their, to their discredit because if they were honest, you know, like, about certainly the truth they've done that of their own accord. So it's actually a much more complicated problem, it means that you can't trust any single authority necessarily other than on, you know, like a like a blockchain or something along those lines, it has a proof of work or a similar mechanism, which makes it computationally difficult to falsify something. With that said, I think that um, you know, tools like GPT three is show how far NLP is advanced. And I think we could start applying something like that, for epistemology, where you put an effect or assertion rather, and you get back our Essentially knowledge bases that state whether or not that fact is true according to that knowledge base. So for example, you parcel of Wikipedia, and you put in an assertion, like, you know, I don't know, Ronald Reagan's birthday was so and so date, and you get back a true false, right, according to a knowledge base. And that can be wrong some type of evidence.

Unknown Speaker  1:15:22  
true false is like very difficult.

Unknown Speaker  1:15:24  
Yeah, yeah, exactly. That's right. So it is, um, however you want to call it, you can say, this knowledge base says that's true. Right. Um, and, you know, that's, that's useful, because it could differ, you know, on the topic of hate speech, I think that's extremely difficult. Because I'm, you know, trying to give the most neutral possible answer I can on that, let's say, you know, Israel and the Palestinians might differ on what is hate speech, right. And, you know, like, that's something where it's probably going to be community moderation, ultimately, that's going to determine that, and what gets really tricky is that some community will not want the other community to exist, or vice versa. Right. And, and so then you just you basically have information war, you know, between those communities, at least, however, the internal logic of a community is going to be something that I think will be prime, namely, you know, is it a functional enough community to maintain an internal moderation policy? And if so, then then everybody there has opted in. So there's kind of a consent aspect to it, basically, like the old Reddit used to be, and I think a new Reddit will arise where, rather than being locked into a Reddit account, and you know, having a bunch of subreddits banned or what have you. And by the way, I respect you know, Steve, and the folks at Reddit, I understand why they're doing what they're doing. But rather than something like that, you have this portable Ethereum account where you can go and log into a, a, you know, aetherium, Reddit equivalent, and the moderation is something which is, you know, obvious to you when you enter, and if you don't like it, you can exit. Okay,

Unknown Speaker  1:17:05  
there's one other tiny surprise, but I think this topic is super, super valuable and really useful. I totally agree with that, without just talking about, I think that the you can, there are a number of projects already aiming to do this, you should look at things like the underlay. The underlay is an effort to there's a thing called meta webbing in the in the past that ended up becoming the Google Knowledge Graph. And that had built the meta meta web team built out those free days as a previous was this kind of database oriented kind of thing. And it tried to do like the true false version of facts and so that you could connect it to applications, when a really important thing is to kind of build a Bayesian network of inference behind a claim, so that you can use so that you can get that binary, true false, but you know, precisely what facts you've collected along the way. So when you falsify something, you backprop you act up the the change in, in, in belief through the network, to understand whether something needs to revert or not, to as what the budget was saying, like, we need to understand that our perception about things changes, and or our understanding of things changes. And when that changes, those changes happen, things need to be retracted or need to be adjusted, and we need to, to actually move up, move to a higher knowledge content place. And I think, you know, things like, so, that group create a new product called the underlay, that is trying to solve it precisely that is trying to create a network of evidence linked together with with, with a belief net, so you understand how, what the facts might be, and so on. And so using those tools could be done right now, to plug them in, you know, to various different kinds of claims made in in, in social media or anything like there's the pieces are there, it just then need to be put together?

Unknown Speaker  1:18:52  
A question for metallic given that with incentive design, and just in general, kind of how these potential decentralized systems may operate? How could you going to prevent some large corporation from spending enough money to compromise any truth signaling around a fact that they might want to verify or, or in general, kind of sway their decision and like what people think is actually true or not, or just kind of push their agenda?

Unknown Speaker  1:19:17  
You know, I'd say stopping this is a is a hard problem. And it's definitely not a problem with the existing centralized platforms have succeeded at and can we improve, improve much on the status quo like it's in, there's things that we can do like we can create new, better reputation systems try to kind of better distinguish between, you know, real accounts representing real people and civil accounts, like, at least when no, even just catch those cases where like on Twitter for example, when you know, you know, who makes a poll and then suddenly 5000 likes appear means. So if like there's things that you can, we can kind of do on the on the margin in terms of just reducing the ability to kind of fake the love the level of support or the level of popularity or something. And it definitely does go to will have to involve we're kind of moving away from essentially treating every account as though it's the same. But then kind of moving beyond that, like, there's a real there's a real challenges that it's harder, and a lot of it will just involve a kind of some kind of active defense. So no fault, if someone pushes some position, then it's going to be the responsibility of someone else, they're going to actively figure out, kind of points to what exactly is wrong with it. And for that to get signal boosted, and so forth. So I don't think there's one silver bullet, I think there's kind of a bunch of things that can help We'll see.

Unknown Speaker  1:20:59  
Now then makes a lot of sense in, in something both on in belgie touched on earlier in their answers. But there's a lot of questions on that we're getting on kind of what are actually really good business models for these essentials networks, how many tokens are one, one, you kind of set that as you're not going to die? Likely? But do you think that fundamentally, the way the the onus on the payments and the cost of like subsidizing the system, being in a weak position towards the users or consuming the platform, kind of will prevent people to connect positively and interact? But even that actually becomes a problem in the network itself growing? What are their alternatives to sustaining and

Unknown Speaker  1:21:39  
I think,

Unknown Speaker  1:21:41  
I think what the current social media world got extremely good at was reducing the friction coefficients around sharing material, ensuring content and signing up for the platforms, those were the gating, those were the main gating factors. And so they built their entire kind of growth teams and so on, oriented around, getting more content and causing more content to appear, and more people to sign up and all that kind of stuff. And I think what's gonna shift now is that we now care a lot more about other other friction coefficients, we now care about making making it high friction to cause the battles that the budget is pointing out that those kinds of like, you know, kind of harassment and attacks and so on, become more thoughtful, and more, as opposed to just kind of like these devolved arguments that just are basically useless, and just just a display time. And so I think, thinking modeling the system, and the friction coefficients everywhere, might help somebody build a much better, better system that tunes the incentives the right way, and gets, and that includes the, when you think about a business model, that will power this thing, whatever it might, might be, think of the person coefficients associated with our business model, and what parties might be trying to benefit from the business model. So for example, right now, the the spread of information, and the, the, the utility to something like Facebook, of having a very incendiary article is so high, because it brings so many people to the platform, that they let slide all kinds of stuff that that, uh, that another platform might totally put the brakes on. And that's because that's where the business model is. And so modeling the, the behaviors that you want to see and what you want to have happen, and the friction coefficients around those, and then modeling the behaviors that the business model might engender. And the first incompetence around that might yield it might help you understand that what what you what you should really be building and making, then making sure that what the thing you're building actually fits that model is a whole other whole other problem.

Unknown Speaker  1:23:53  
Yeah, I agree with one a lot actually here in the sense of, you know, when there are like, like, like a, like a fight on, you know, social media platform is a pain in the ass and is negative some, you know, arguably for the world. But it is, even though it's negative for the world of the various actors that are getting something out of it. Twitter is getting sieving, because it's selling ads, right? millions of views, you know, and you know, like, it's basically like a boxing match or whatever, right? Both both parties have, you know, some cuts, but, you know, the promoter sells some seats, right? And I think that that term in the equation, if you actually go and write out, you know, the game theory of the payoff matrix, you have something where, yeah, I mean, it's, it's almost like stealing money in the sense of, you know, you're making these two parties poorer, but Twitter itself is gaining I'm not saying it's like intentionally like that. But when you are just optimizing for engagement overall else and you've got pageviews without any kind of moral dimension to it. You know, There's there's an issue there, right. And so I think that where it gets interesting is you start including those missing terms in the equation? And asking, Can we quantify what is happening offline? Can we quantify what is happening in the world? And potentially add some future time orientation to it? Right. So I'll give one example that I've been thinking a great deal about, which is, you know, can we have folks declare their values? Right? So, you know, let's say you're funding a new media site, how do you know that it doesn't, you know, just descend into cake memes and, and clickbait, right, because that's what the new cycle is, right. And, you know, every everybody who sets up a media set, you have some high fluting, you know, idea of what it's going to be. But if you're, if you're actually chasing profit, you have to pay the bills, you need pageviews. And so you kind of get pulled into this lowest common denominator thing. So at the same as the social media side, right, so what do you do? Well, one possibility is you define it like a, this is one, one sketch of an idea, feel free to, you know, critique it, or whatever. But you define a values dot txt file, which has the keywords that you are trying to drive positive sentiment for over five years. For example, let's say you're trying to solve, you know, climate change with technology. So the keywords you'd be trying to boost would be like, fusion energy, smart grid, solar panels, electric cars, you know, carbon scrubbing, whatever, stuff like that, right. And, crucially, what you could then do is you could take in your values, text with these 10, or 15, keywords, or 100, whatever. And then you score it against every piece of content on the site, you take your RSS feed, and you pull every post every every tweet, every video, etc, and you pull the captions, and you score it, and you get a table of keywords by posts. And each entry is either gray because you didn't mention that keyword or it's green, because you said it with a positive sentiment, or it's red, whereas negative sentiment. And the idea is that, you know, you also track in the population at large sentiment over time. And you see if it's rising from 1%, to 5% to 20% of the population. What's the point here, the point here is that, um, you now have values constrained pageviews, where if you cranked out listicles, and q&a, and so on, it would be on fusion energy, right. So your content would be constrained to basically fit within the self declared values. And it wouldn't just be sort of the amoral search of cliques, but it'd be a cause that you had self defined in advance that you're going to stick to for a period of time, right. And the thesis is, that actually creates more value for society over time. Because it's not just the head snapping, memory lists, you know, look over here, look over there aspect of Twitter, you're actually declaring a long term objective that you're going to work towards over years, or even even longer than that, right. And I think something along those lines of restoring long term value orientation and value creation, so values, text kind of has a dual meaning here, right, um, will hopefully create more wealth in the long run. So you know, like a burning building or a fight gains engagement, but it also destroys value, creating value should create more short term value as well, if you can figure out how to how to make the maturity functions match up, you know, that's, that's something I've thought a lot about.

Unknown Speaker  1:28:30  
It's a it's a really interesting concept.

Unknown Speaker  1:28:33  
I'd love to learn more about that after just to kind of ask the last question here, and we can, can conclude this panel for each of you. What's going to be your first post on the new decentralized social media platform of your choice? Or if your dreams with all the features that you want? And what will be the first thing you're going to publish there? And now we'll we'll start that with the topic. What would you like to talk about what happens?

Unknown Speaker  1:29:02  
What would I like to talk about on the dissent on the decentralized social media?

Unknown Speaker  1:29:06  
What would what would be your first post on that new decentralized platform of your dreams?

Unknown Speaker  1:29:13  
I see a comment, saying, ooh, flame softball question. See, the problem is that, like, the bait, the vague questions are always the hardest, like, you know, you get into this mode where like, you're always afraid of not coming up with an answer. That's clever enough, and then it just becomes so extremely terrible.

Unknown Speaker  1:29:30  
Okay,

Unknown Speaker  1:29:31  
Rick, actually,

Unknown Speaker  1:29:36  
I don't know. I mean, realize realistically, it'll just be like a blog post, or whatever.

Unknown Speaker  1:29:44  
So I'm gonna, I'm gonna

Unknown Speaker  1:29:47  
use the question to give some advice for for folks. And so I will claim that probably not gonna do as well the claim that the post that I would write would be a post about giving advice to people trying to build this stuff. So um, I would say that, uh, that would be a post talking about how media both kind of like a traditional media structures and social media, which are kind of like intertwined. We really need to think of them as, like as universal public utilities. So not International, not national utilities, not international utilities, not even transnational, transnational really think bigger think of something that's kind of humanity oriented. And think of the incentive structures behind that. And think of building mechanisms and systems that are that don't put too much stock in any one nations perspective, but enables those nations in those local jurisdictions to build their own subnets with their own rules, and then people should be able to opt in or opt out of those and exit and move between those. And so I think systems right now are way too overfitting of specific nations that happened to have a lot of power. And that's giving, that's creating really bad structures that other nations are exploiting. And so the the nationalism problem that we're seeing play out in, in media, and disinformation campaigns, and like, you know, side note, go and watch, like the amazing interviews with ex KGB spies about the disinformation campaigns, they're amazing. And you can see what's going on right now. And related to that, that's just straight up. But, but really think about systems that are resistant to that kind of stuff. And, and think of the role of, of, of journalism, and of journalists and the people and publishers and so on. As, as a as vectors for good information that needs to be moved around, where good is kind of defined by those subnets or defined globally. And, and kind of the global version is kind of an objective truth perspective, versus in those subnets, it's kind of an inter Subjective Truth to those groups. And think of think of the role of, of those folks in those networks, and how to promote really good, good, high quality things to appear. Because it's not about like, we've done a quantity to that happen. And we've found the problems that happen because of quantity, and to really, really focus on quality. And then also remember that a, that a privacy of information is a really critical thing. And we've sort of lost that right now. And these systems are accumulating a huge amount of information that will probably come back and haunt a lot of people, meaning the 21st century is long, we're at the beginning of it, and the 20th century, also looked really nice at the beginning, but turned really bad. And it could be the 21st century turns really bad as well. And there's a lot of information online that is easily accessible by a lot of people that could make that could cause a lot of problems. And so pay attention to that. And be careful with that, and move the world into much more synonymous kind of behavior, where digital identity is actually decoupled from, from physical human identity as much as we can, we kind of the pendulum swung too far into into making synonymous disappear. And then I would probably give, give a give a, you know, just a call for, for just doing this with, there's a ton of people that went into journalism to, because they really care about the truth and they really care about about protecting the disadvantaged communities and protecting and getting getting much better quality outcomes for for their groups, for their nation and so on. And, and, you know, they can take history of journalism is filled with incredible important advances and improvements that came simply because there was a series of articles that that caused some important things to happen. And so just recall that that's the point. And that even though right now, the entire media incentive structure is kind of messed up, both in traditional media and in social media. And let's figure out how we can return to, to build a system that promotes that, and, and where, and acknowledges that now, anybody can be anybody can be one of those, one of these publishers and journalists, as long as you as you build a good audience, and you and you're good at what you do. And so that's building a system that can that can promote high quality outcomes through that I think will be will be one of the better uses of time that you could have for the next five years. So if you really care about this, like stick with it, and help build like a much better public utility

Unknown Speaker  1:34:28  
maybe just to conclude with the Balaji any advice or your first post on any centralized decentralized platform? Would that be

Unknown Speaker  1:34:37  
my first post on decentralized platform? I'm sorry, like, can you like what would I post would be my first post on that on like, the decentralized Facebook? Yes.

Unknown Speaker  1:34:47  
Yeah, I had a question to like when typical while so feel free to do.

Unknown Speaker  1:34:51  
Oh, I'm sorry. Yeah, I didn't have to context um, put my first post be a Probably a task of some kind to get people to start doing productive work, you know, so that, like, they would actually create something, I think, you know, just to riff on this for a second. You know, Wikipedia is an example of collaborative work on the internet. And you know, in a Google Doc, you can have multiple people editing at the same time.

Unknown Speaker  1:35:24  
And, you know, there's

Unknown Speaker  1:35:26  
operational transformation as being an algorithm for a while, in terms of something that you can do to take a bunch of different contributions and link them together. But there's now new things called conflict free replicated data types, which actually make it you know, a little bit easier from a programming standpoint to build something like a Google Docs. Um, my point is that I think taking that stuff and merging it with crypto and with social networks, you might have something where the fundamental unit of action is not just, oh, let me tweet something or let me put up an Instagram post or something like that. But let me give a unit of work. That's a remunerated unit of work that can be merged into a larger whole, for example, writing a book in a decentralized way, documenting a code base, annotating something, etc, right? So that'd be something I'd like to see, you know, first post in a decentralized social network that doesn't just give us these benefits of, you know, like, like self sovereignty, but actually starts using the internet as a way for us to to build useful things online together.

Unknown Speaker  1:36:33  
Awesome, was a really open, you'd say,

Unknown Speaker  1:36:37  
key words from TPT. Three, they'll just make the post itself, you just post it, but I'll take that answer too. But with that, I want to thank all three of you so much for for being with us and going a little bit over time to answer everybody's questions and, and be part of this panel. So technology one, thanks so much, and really appreciate all your time.

Unknown Speaker  1:36:58  
Thank you. Thanks.

Unknown Speaker  1:37:00  
Thank you. It's a really good fun conversation.

Transcribed by https://otter.ai
