Unknown Speaker  0:11  
All right, great. Okay. Yeah. So when we're talking about today, who here has seen the talk that gave in 2013 of Y Combinator on exit? Yeah. Okay, great. Okay, so some of you're familiar with that. In some sense, this is sort of like a spiritual sequel, but also a standalone. So I want to talk about something, you know, like a conceptual framework that I use to sort of organize thinking about the future, which I call the network sheet. And the basic idea is just like every company is becoming a software company, every country will eventually be forced to become a software country. And, you know, I'll dive into what this means and also how you might be able to personally benefit from it. So that's me, you know, put me in a suit. Basically, one thing I'll say, is just going to try to co sign up for stuff, we may have some interesting stuff if you guys are interested in this talk, to turn it over to. Okay, so for today's talk, basically, we're going to basically talk about, you know, four things, right. So you start your own company, you start your own community, like a social network, start your own currency, start your own country. And right now we are here, right? That's, that's basically where we are on that roadmap with digital currencies now, like 100, something billion 130, Bitcoin might be at 4000, by the time I get off the stage. And that's pretty awesome that that completely didn't exist, even, you know, like, seven, eight years ago. And where we're going from that is, the next step will be starting your own country. That's where we're eventually going to go, and how do we actually get there. And that's basically this concept of the network state. So just to motivate the idea a little bit, basically, what we used to have, and what we still have our nation states, where essentially you have geographical area, for example, Russia, and geography is primary. And the ideology is secondary, that same geography could be communist, it could be, you know, nationalists, like it is now but basically, you swap the flags you shop, the ideology, the geography remains constant. Um, but what we're moving towards is something where the ideology, the beliefs remain constant, and the location changes. So those are the two meetup spots for DEF CON for aetherium. So last year was in Shanghai, and this years in Cancun, seeing people different place, same beliefs, okay, as opposed to same people, same place different beliefs, which is where the nation state was. And the thinking here is that, you know, a lot of folks here are interested in stuff like seasteading and, and Mars colonies and what have you in startup cities. But there's actually an achievable possible, you know, what people call the adjacent possible that's feasible, even, you know, now. And what that is, is something called crowd choice. It's basically collective bargaining with governments. So now, it's, you know, already, you know, something's been done in small scale with like the Free State Project where a bunch of libertarians move to New Hampshire.

Unknown Speaker  3:02  
It's something which, you know, Elon Musk has done when he's like negotiating with Nevada. And it's a, it's something where, you know, the tools for finding good locations, as I'll get into have become much, much better. So you can actually comparison shop for the ideal jurisdiction. And the idea here is that before you even think of moving 10,000 people to a cease dead, you need to just be able to move 10,000 people to a country. And that itself, is actually a very non trivial thing to do to coordinate 10,000 people moving. And just proving that out with today's technology. And negotiating a bargain with the government's either side doesn't require anything new from a tech standpoint. But what it just does require is some you know, customer acquisition and business model building. And once you can do that, sort of like working out a muscle, if you can, then you know, push a button and get 10,000 people to arrive in a location, you can charge start changing the location to more and more ambitious places, like a charter city, and then eventually to something like a cset or a Mars colony. But first being able to coordinate and move thousands of people in a reliable way, that is still an unsolved problem in terms of doing it in a predictable and reproducible way. So I'll talk about how we can get there on But first, let me kind of motivate you know, what are the technological drivers that are leading to this console network stake? And what do I mean by it in more detail, after I talk about that, we'll talk about his concept crowd choice, and then also what what you can do. So the technological drivers, so essentially, there's this great book, I love this book, tweet about it, or when I used to tweet, and you should get this. There's a bunch of other references, I might post on my blog. But this is a book called sovereign individual. And it goes through essentially the history of violence. And how you know, back when we were hunter gatherers, it didn't really make sense to go and mug somebody because they had no store property. They're just hunting and gathering. And they just, you know, walked around and their possessions were just, you know, the clothes on their back, and they didn't have greeneries or stored food or what have you. And then with the rise of agriculture, and then armor and then gunpowder, the balance of power with violence shifts. And what's really interesting is, you know, people often talk about how you know, culture is upstream of politics, but technology is upstream of culture, because technology terms was feasible. And all the political ideologies that are floating around are implicitly enabled by the technologies that that exists at that time. And so if you take a technology first vantage point, a lot of things become become more clear. And in particular, basically, the the logic of violence is changing, that's to say, is becoming harder and harder to steal property. You know, if you have a million people, you can't, you know, break cryptographic code, you can't steal somebody's Bitcoin, it's not actually that easy. So as the logic of violence changes, that's going to change the structure of society. And lots of the things that we sort of take for granted as the ultimate authorities that we appeal to are no longer those authorities. And so, just to give you some sense of these things, these technological drivers, I'll just do a quick skim through recent headlines. So you know, Bitcoin has basically blown up that you have capital controls, right, in order to do capital controls, you need to be able to do packet filtering, a normal nation state can't do that, you need to have a very software, intelligent nation state. Um, you know, if you're talking about 3d printing, that's something which challenges the ability of the state to regulate. That is to say, you know, regulation now becomes DRM. Unless you can impose DRM you can't stop people from 3d printing robot hands, or drones or guns or any other kind of physical object. Now, basically, you know, DRM becomes the locus of regulation. third example, so quantified self versus licensing. So there's a lot of technologies that are really have been held back that that will eventually get out there and wide distribution that allow you to basically measure your own, you know, blood glucose and and hematocrit and so on, in a mobile way, just using your phone as the computer where the measurements feed into. And once that happens, you can put software on the phone to diagnose yourself. So in this fashion, sort of you are really the software becomes your own doctor, and the intelligence of 1000 doctors, you know, is basically put on the server to interpret your, you know, information in real time, locally. So it's not like you're doing without a doctor, but it's really the software license is what gives you access to those medical licenses. Another example, so over here, we have you know, telepresence versus borders, right. And so now, your ability to interdite people coming into your country is a function of your ability to find an intraday, you know, a network connection, you know, Edward Snowden is stuck in Russia, but he's not really stuck, he can, you know, go in a little robot like this. And these robots currently are only so so they're getting better. And eventually, they're going to become like full humanoid kind of things that you can just control at the speed of light. And so now, in order to enforce your work controls, you're going to need a pretty good firewall. Here's another example. So police testimony. So now, you know, GoPros, body cams are mandatory in several states. And this is really interesting thing video, the network is trusted over the sworn testimony of an officer of the state. So trusting the computer, the network, more than we are trusting the state.

Unknown Speaker  7:54  
Here's another example. So you know, when you talk about, like, search warrants, right? encryption is something which is, you know, defeating search warrants. In order to be able to search, you need to be able to decrypt. So again, you're going to need software savvy. Few more quick examples. So, you know, social networks versus the jury of peers on Facebook. And you know, Twitter timestamps are now routinely cited as exculpatory evidence or conversely, in criminal jury evidence in a trial. It's not just you know, the opinions of your fellows in his opinions of the people in your social network, and the folks who have seen or screenshotted something. In terms of, you know, bureaucracy, you know, technology is basically, you know, becoming necessary to run a bureaucracy, the healthcare.gov debacle was only fixed by, you know, six engineers going and fixing them, again, to run a state, you need engineers. Look at one last example here, which is basically that, you know, cyber attacks versus conventional warfare, you know, the Navy's latest warships run on Linux. And cyber attacks actually completely change the balance of power because one individual can do as much damage as nation state, it's completely different deterrence doctrine versus nuclear weapons. And it equalizes and changes things in a way that, you know, we haven't fully computed out. So you take all these things together, and you see something very important happening. You take these pieces together, and you see that the Leviathan is shifting, okay. And so, by that what I mean is, we are getting a new entity that stands over us, that is to say, what is the most powerful force? And if you go back in time, that was powerful force, you know, for many, many centuries was, you know, for many people got it, right. Like, you know, without going to religion, it was just something that was the organizing principle of society. People really, really respected the church, they really believed in hell and so on, that was actually like a governing law. And then by the 20th century, you know, so you know, when people really believe in God, you know, the 10 commandments and so on were enough. Why did you steal because God was gonna punish you. By the late 1800s, early 1900s you know, nature of wrote, you know, God is dead. And by that he wasn't actually attacking it, he was just saying, hey, look, you know, educated people don't believe anymore, we need some new force to be able to restrain people on if, if such exists. And that actually turned out to be the state. This is the 20th century was the rise of these gigantic super states, like Communist China and, you know, Russia and, you know, the Soviet Union, and the United States. And, you know, they weren't, you know, all bad, the United States wasn't, you know, terribly bad. And it wasn't like a pure state entity, there's fusion. So the United States was, you know, for God and country, that's a Marine Corps, whereas the Soviet Union wasn't really too hot on God, there's just pure state. And now we're entering kind of a new era, where, you know, the, the most powerful force is not the church is not the US military, its encryption. And the reason you steal is not because you know, God will smite you, or because the state will punish you, it's because the network won't let you, you don't have the private keys on this literally impermissible mathematically, that's a complete, you know, gigantic shift and what that Leviathan is, what the most powerful actor is, the previous seven or eight slides give you some ideas of how that plays out, in practice, they're talking about the jury of peers or capital controls around you, things that people previously look to the state to accomplish, they now need to actually have mastery over the network to accomplish those same things. And so, you know, the thing about this is this was anticipated, you know, by many writers, you know, these thoughts are, you know, assembly, they're not, you know, fully original in my synthesis. But for example, here a Sanjay wrote, you know, that, you know, basically strong cryptography can resist an unlimited application of violence. And, you know, you can't no amount of violence can solve a math problem. And that's really very different. You know, that's, that's not something that the 20th century really had to think about. And the sound something that, you know, the police or the military have to think about, eminent domain has had to think about that many different things, you know, the assumption is, okay, I'm going to enforce a law eventually, by having a guy with a gun, that may no longer be possible. And so, you know, the, the idea here is that, you know, so first encryption protects property rights. So this won't be novel to most of you, you understand this from from Bitcoin, of course, but it extends beyond Bitcoin and extends beyond smart contracts to basically any form of object that you can even conceptualize, you know, digitally, whether it's a car, whether it's a house, if you've got a smart lock on the house, all these kinds of things are eventually all going to become digital. And so the sum total of your property rights, you'll probably be able to hold locally on your phone, and you'll be able to walk around the world and just hit buttons and open things. And if you lose those private keys, you lose this, then you lose access to encryption also, and this is a little bit less obvious, it protects freedom of association. So you can just go in you know, series, you go from just two way communication between two people to K way organization, Then came a software development, hardware development, came a development of, you know, 3d printed items, and so on. And then you can actually go and take a few people, or a lot of people collaborating in an encrypted fashion in the cloud, and actually materialize, you know, things offline.

Unknown Speaker  12:56  
And, you know, so you put all these things together, and you get something that I think of as the rise of the network state. Okay, so it starts with encryption. It starts with things like you know, the spread of social networks. And you know, over the next 510 years, as VR deploys as digital currency deploys, you're going to have virtual worlds with virtual currencies, where people can experiment with different kinds of systems, they can experiment with their Paris Commune, they can experiment with our golf Gulch. And because it's encrypted, it's invite only and really, nobody can stop them. And you can have every, you know, at least three of the five senses you can have, you know, sight, you can have sound, and you can have touch with haptics, you don't have smell or taste. But unless your goal sculptures, you know, perfume company, that will be too big a deal. And what will happen in my view is kind of it's already happening, which is that these virtual organizations, these virtual realities with virtual currency, these social networks, will eventually want to meet up in person, which is basically what this room is, it's a bunch of folks who came from common interest organised via the internet and assembled in place. And that's because there's certain kinds of human things that are just still best done in person. And what that does is it starts to fundamentally change the entire logic of you know, the Leviathan and how we, how we enforce laws have changed laws, because rather than voting every four years, you can, you know, to change the law under which you live, you can just move to change the law under which you live and be with like people. So it's no longer a four year election cycle. It's basically Okay, how easily Can I move with 500 other people to this location? how flexible Am I how much can I exit? And I'll put some of these pieces together at the very end to give some ideas about what you can potentially personally do to benefit from this. Okay, so, you know, when we talk about the rise of the network state, here's, I think, a really good parallel. Right. So on the left, you know, Marc Andreessen, you know, my partner nation, arbites wrote this article titled software's in the world, you know, several years ago, and at the time, it was maybe like, at least to me, it was obvious to many people, they would argue with it, but now it's completely obvious to everybody that you know, every company has to be a software company. You can Google that. You'll see by Hundred articles with almost the exact same title, whether it's something Adela or the Harvard Business Review, everybody basically agrees that if you are not, if you don't have a software savvy CEO, you're probably going to lose customers to other people. That's not a guarantee of success, of course. But without knowing software, you're probably going to lose customers. And what's starting to happen is unless you're a software savvy country leader, right, you're going to lose citizens. And so there's, you know, three countries I've just picked out over here. So, you know, MIT, like graduate, you know, like a Netanyahu of Israel is an MIT graduate and engineering knows what he's doing. In Estonia, their president to my selves, I was also a software engineer. And so as the Prime Minister of Singapore, Li Shan Long, he's actually taught this class at Cambridge, and even posted a two's complement problem on his Facebook where he challenged, you know, Singaporeans to go and solve it actually knows binary arithmetic. So pretty smart guys, and these guys are all people who understand what engineering is understanding what software is, and who are well positioned. These kinds of small countries run by software savvy leaders are well positioned for this entry. Now on so you know, this is basically the fundamental driver over here is that just like, a company that's not software savvy, will lose its customers, a country that's not software savvy, will eventually lose its citizens. So the fundamental driver, I believe, is going to be migration, that basically migration will discipline states, especially migration of the most talented people. And you might say, well, not everyone's gonna move, but only three or 4% of the world lives in the United States, only a tiny percentage of people actually ended up moving here. And that definitely did change the world, only a tiny percentage of people went and you know, found a Google or founded Uber or founded Facebook, and that changed the world. So a small number of very highly motivated, intelligent people who publicly move in a big way on can can make a very big difference. In fact, in some locales, you know, the top thousand people are like, you know, 3040 50% of the tax base.

Unknown Speaker  16:53  
So, you know, the question is, what would they do exactly? How would they migrate? How would this work? So there's a, there's sort of a one liner that I that I think about a lot, which is that mobile is making us more mobile. And you know, I won't go through every single one of these technologies right now, I'll probably post a revised version of these slides on my blog. But the basic idea is that pretty much every technology, you look at, for example, from, from social networks, to ride sharing, to room sharing, you know, anything you know, from Kindle, etc, is basically reducing obligate ties to the land, that's to say, yes, you can stick around in one place, but you don't have to your huge shelf of books just got put into your phone, right? Your friends don't even know that you moved, because you're connected them in the social network. And you could literally move from California to Boston. And unless you announce it, nobody in your social network is going to even know. So that's a really interesting thing, you know, all these technologies reduce the cost of moving on, and they're making moving in both the social sense and the financial sense, less expensive. There's many different technologies, you know, that that you can go through and enumerate here. But the the net of it is, if moving is becoming cheaper socially, and it's becoming cheaper financially. And we also observe that law is a function of latitude and longitude, the more mobile we are, the more cheaply we can change our law is just to underscore the concept that laws of function, latitude longitude, here maps of property tax sales, tax income tax, gas tax, just in the United States, right. And as you can see, they vary quite a bit. In fact, if you superimpose them, given two different lifestyles, you might have a completely different optimal state in which to live. If you drive a lot and don't have a house and make a lot of money versus you know, don't drive a lot and you know, rent and don't make much money, you're probably going to have two different states in which to live, all else being equal. Most people aren't even aware of what their ideal place to live is, you're going to need software to figure out these incentives, mentioned overlaying, you know, 50 of these maps low on four, and you start to get a sense of how complex it is. This is just tax, you know, forget about, you know, gun laws and this law and that law. But in theory, and certainly, as a show, in practice, you can take a bunch of the most important kinds of laws, stack them together and start deriving optimum mood functions, and also cost estimates of how costly it would be for you to move how costly it would be for you to change the law under which you live. And that's really, you know, what's the whole point of an election is to change the law under which you live, except now we have an alternative, which is migration. Another way to change the law under which you live, just change your x&y, rather than try to change it in place. And of course, well, I've shown this domestically. This also certainly applies internationally. Here's like a map of Bitcoin regulations, you can come up with very similar maps for many other kinds of policies. So if if mobile is making us more mobile, and if law is a function of latitude and longitude, and it's also increasingly possible to assemble very large groups of people online. So I love this tweet. This is a this is a tweet that just shows that, you know, the largest country in the world is Facebook. And, you know, then there's little China and number two in India. And you know, Twitter has a user base You know, that's almost as large as the United States. So it's like, gigantic, absolutely gigantic. And, you know, while back, for example, you know, Mark Zuckerberg had a Skype with David Cameron, who was the, you know, Prime Minister is is very small social network with only 16 million users called the United Kingdom. And, and that's like, way down the list over there, right? So like the scale of these things, you know, people see numbers. But really, when we have VR, you're gonna see football stadiums of football stadiums of football stadiums of people and get a true sense of what the scale of these social networks is, where you don't really fully see that when you see like a 1 million Twitter followers or, you know, 200,000 upvotes. So, you know, mobile's making us more mobile laws of function, latitude, longitude, we're getting really good at coordinating large crowds of people online.

Unknown Speaker  20:50  
And so all of these are basically prerequisites for this concept of T bow sorting. Right? Now, if you do anything in math, or anything in computer science, you know, economics, whatever, you'll always be humbled by the fact that somebody figured it all out 50 or 60 years ago, right. And so this guy, you know, t bow, he probably also, you know, stood on the shoulders of some giant, but had this amazing article in the 50s, which basically said, Hey, you know, how can we solve the free rider problems? How can we solve various kinds of economic problems, and he couldn't have conceptualized all the stuff that was going to happen over the next 65 years. What's amazing is the premises that he put down for this concept of T bow sorting, and basically all being enabled by smartphones and the internet, right? If you look at those seven premises, like perfect information, and you know, like no spillover of goods, because it's a SaaS service, it's going directly to you and not to your neighbor, and so on. These things are now increasingly either exactly or very close to being satisfied by the current information economy. And so it's really worth going and dusting off this article and all the other articles like it, because it's a theory that sat on the shelf for a long time and till now it's idea has come. It's time has come. So you know, what exactly is teba? sorting? So the basic idea and you know, prepare a better slide on this. But the basic idea is as follows. What if you take 1000 software engineers, you're making, let's say, 100,000 a year? Okay, so total of 100 million dollars annualized income, you take all their preference vectors, you know, they want this tax rate and this marriage law and this gun law and so on, and you aggregate them? Do you treat that as a search query across jurisdictions, you find the jurisdictions of the world that best fit the collective preferences of those thousand people. And then you negotiate with the governors or the mayor's there and move their if and only if they change that policy. Okay. Now, there's some precedents for this, which I've listed, you know, for example, like the Free State Project, which moved about 10 20,000 people to New Hampshire on and, you know, obviously, guys like Alon are companies, like Boeing will go and negotiate with states and what is what is Tesla if not just a assemblage of a few thousand individuals, right? The difference here is you don't have to be part of a company to go and negotiate with the governor on instead, you can just form a cloud community who, which has a single purpose, which is, hey, let's get the best deal for our members, with all the governments around the world that want this gigantic new tax base, and with the government will do is they'll say, Okay, I mean, if they're smart, if they're software friendly, they'll say, Okay, well, you're bringing in $100 million of annual new revenue, because you're all these remote workers, you can work from anywhere. And our current tax rate is, let's say, 10%. But you want 9%, okay, but if we bring you in, we'll actually make more money, because even though reducing the taxes on our existing citizens, we're getting this huge new tax base of, you know, productive people, right. So for the first time, it's actually possible to empirically look at what laws and what, you know, regulations and taxes, get individuals to move not just large corporations, but individuals that group in convenience into into groups and then move. So I think this is going to be a very revolutionary concept. I think that it's time to start productizing, something like this, I think it's totally possible. Nothing I'm describing here is not possible. And I'll show some, some ways that you as an individual can maybe even start working on it yourself. So what you can do right now, I think the single most important thing before you know people think about you know, having an independent state is to become financially independent yourself, right? Before you can declare independence, you want to be financially independent. And before you can even, you know, move somewhere, the more flexibility you have, the more financial independence you have, the better. And so a present kind of, I think, maybe a novel but you know, easy to apply formula, where you can become financially independent, even if you're not, you know, like, like a founder of a successful startup or make it rich on a on a great investment. And you know, what it used to be like in 2005, Paul Graham wrote this recipe you got, right, so 2005, Paul Graham wrote this thing where he said, you know, hey, the way to get rich is to come to Silicon Valley, found a startup and you know, raise VC, right. And yeah, that works if you are like, lucky and motivated and so on and crazy enough to go and do a startup And lucky. But I'd say the new recipe is don't go to Silicon Valley, don't found a startup and don't raise VC. Instead, I would say, get a remote work job, do the most anti American thing ever, which is save money. Okay.

Unknown Speaker  25:17  
And then now you've got financial independence, right. And I'll just present some quick calculations to show what I mean by this. So over here is a very simple spreadsheet, where you just assume that you're making so let's say you've gone and gotten a job at Google, you got a job at Facebook, or what have you, you don't do anything political, you just keep your head down, just earn money. And you do not apply for any kind of manager role. After the first year, instead of getting a promotion, you asked to work remote. And the reason is, if you're a manager, then you're a hub, and you're kind of forced to be on site and so on to manage people that if you are a really, really good, you know, engineer or lawyer or graphic designer, or somebody else who can do their work over an internet connection, they'll be happy to let you work remote. Once you've shown that you're reliable over the course of three or six months or nine months or years, it's hard to find, you know, good people, probably almost everybody in this room could could do that could go and get a job at you know, a software company or, or, or something along those lines, and then start working remote. And now, if you then think about, okay, where are you going to live, right? If you go to, for example, a country like Singapore, so in the bottom left, you know, Singapore's tax rates are something like about $10,000 equivalent us if you make 120 k in income. And that's actually a very big difference because it compounds over years, if you can get tax at Singapore rates, and if you can go and spend at let's say Thailand rates, right, and this may require expatriation by the way. But if you can do that, you can save quite a lot of money each year. And the lower your burn rate, the higher your personal runway. So in the final column in the right hand side, I show at that burn rate at that income at that savings rate, how many years of personal runway you have. And the awesome thing about that is you can get to a few hundred thousand dollars of savings and several years, maybe a decade or more of personal runway by doing a very straightforward thing that most people in this room are capable of doing. It just requires one step which is moving overseas, leaving Silicon Valley. Now, I'm kind of stuck because I'm a hub. Don't do that. But if you can move you should, the younger you are you know if I was out of college, I would do this, but didn't have attachments. And the thing about this is there's a lot of tools now that make this really easy. So if you go to like Nomad list, com, you can find places in Thailand, you can find places, you know, all over the world, they're actually pretty cheap and awesome to live because the rest of world has gotten much, much nicer over the last 20 years now that they've, you know, become capitalist and have free trade and so on. No medalist calm is quite good. And I also recommend, you know, nerd company. So this company actually founded called teleport recently got acquired, and teleport will let you do comparisons between cities. And so you can see how much less expensive it is to go and post up in sunny Thailand as opposed to San Francisco. And the numbers here are absolutely gigantic, there's pretty much nothing you can do that will be as deterministic in terms of getting to financial independence as moving. Because you're talking about 40 or 50% of your annual income. And you're talking about something where you know, you already have the skills to make that amount of money on you can make it easy to save money by just moving overseas. Now, of course, once you've got this nest egg, you can decide if you so desire to go and invest in cryptocurrency and on that's also pretty awesome. Because then it doesn't matter if you say something on popular on social media, if people downvote you or yell at you, or what have you, you're actually financially independent,

Unknown Speaker  28:36  
right? They have no power over you, if folks yell at you.

Unknown Speaker  28:41  
If you're thinking about things like start societies, or what have you, there will be people who yell at you on social media, the more financially independent you are, the more you can just shrug it off

Unknown Speaker  28:47  
doesn't matter.

Unknown Speaker  28:49  
So you know, maybe Bitcoin will hit 4000 by the time we're done. So that's it just to summarize. So basically, this is these are the technological driving forces that I think will, you know, lead to this thing I call the network state on, I think the fundamental drivers of migration, the migration of talented individuals will discipline the states and coordinated migration, the concept of crowd trace, I think it's something that you could productize now, I think as an individual, simply migrating yourself is a good way to get to financial independence. And then you can maybe get help get tuned into it and say, thank you.

Unknown Speaker  29:29  
I want to allow for time for just one question while we set up the next presentation. So if you wanted to take this time, sure.

Unknown Speaker  29:42  
As a bit of a system theorist, you understand the positive feedback loops and the negative feedback loops in any system. Whether you back in the day when you were tweeting you spoke about the political part is the ones that are the nationalists, you can call them and the internationalist like we'd like to fall under the internet internationally. sphere. And as a as a tool to achieve our goals, we will have the Network and Internet and all the concepts described today. But you also spoke about the nationalists and the fact that they have some tools, like control of the territory, the fact that they have existing networks. When you apply this to the individual right now, and you think about, should we go outside of Silicon Valley, or should we stay in here? Silicon Valley has a lot of amazing networks, a lot of talent and a lot of capital. What are your thoughts about, you know, balancing this approach?

Unknown Speaker  30:34  
Yeah, good question. So, I think that, you know, in the ideal scenario, internationalist nationalists discipline each other, where, you know, internationals do have to live somewhere. So they need to negotiate with a bunch of different countries. And nationalists need to be fairly, they have to tamp down their worst instincts on both ends of the spectrum. They can't be too Communist or to racist if they want to attack the best town in the world, which wants to just, you know, live and make money. So So hopefully, both of them discipline the other. In the context of Silicon Valley, I'd say the whole token and Ico thing was basically the the last thing that was needed, because everything else we've already pushed up into the cloud, right, we've got slack in the cloud, we've got Google Docs, and we've got, you know, Gmail and mobile phones and everything else. But with tokens and Icos companies used to be born on Sand Hill Road, and then they would go and grow up on Wall Street. And the fact that they were funded on Sand Hill Road meant that VCs wanted to have driving distance to their board seats. So the companies had their offices set up, you know, within driving distance of sand hill. And this is basically one of the biggest reasons for the clustering of companies over here is that VCs don't want to drive too far. I know it's like really prosaic, it's like the width of the, you know, Railway, you know, it's driven by horse. So, so now that you can actually raise money through the cloud, on somebody who's in India, or in Israel, or anywhere, no longer needs to come out to Silicon Valley for like, two weeks to like, build a relationship with with VC and, you know, go and talk to us in the tables and so on. And that's kind of artificial. Instead, they can just be meritorious and just do it online. And so that is the big thing that I think will cut the tie and then finally, decentralized technology. So yeah, thank

Unknown Speaker  32:17  
you so much. Thanks.

Transcribed by https://otter.ai
