Unknown Speaker  0:30  
Hey Balaji How you doing, man?

Unknown Speaker  0:32  
Hey, how are you

Unknown Speaker  0:34  
doing well doing well. So I want to introduce, today we're gonna be doing a fireside chat with the one and only Balaji. Normally Balaji does not need an intro given that this is crypto, but just in the interest of completeness Balaji you were a PhD at Stanford, you co founded a genomics company Council, you also co founded or calm, and coin center, you were a general partner at Andreessen Horowitz, you were CTO of Coinbase. And now you are an esteemed member of the twitterati.

Unknown Speaker  1:01  
You've got, you've got a very

Unknown Speaker  1:02  
extensive background. So you know, across all that, you've been an academic, you've been a founder, you've been an operator, you've been an investor, and you've been an influencer? Which of these things you wish you'd done more of? And which do you think you wish you wish you'd done less of over your career?

Unknown Speaker  1:20  
That's a good question. Um, I think it's been very useful to be on multiple sides of the table, for example, as a student and teacher, as an engineer, and engineering manager, as entrepreneur and investor, you know, as critic and as journalist basically, over the last, you know, several, several months, right? Um, because it gives you an appreciation for for both sides, and the incentive structures and so on, things are not always apparent on just sitting on one side. Um, what I actually wish I had done more than what I want to get more into is actually art on and, you know, so, but what I mean, is

Unknown Speaker  1:59  
you say that,

Unknown Speaker  2:00  
yeah, I know, I know, like, back in, you know, high school, there was a, there's a choice where I, either I was going to take this freehand art class, or, you know, I think there's bc calculus, or I don't remember it, it was it was either math or physics class that that you know, overlapped. But I'd always been interested actually in, in art. And insofar as that comes out, in any of my work that I've done, um, I think I have reasonably Okay, slides, like, you know, I spend some time on the aesthetics of slides. But I've never formally trained on that, right. And so I'm just trying to boot that up. And one of the reasons for that is, I think, we're about to get into the era of decentralized Hollywood, where an individual can make full length, you know, movies and stuff on their, with their phones and their laptops. And there's at least two ways you know, first is recording video with your phone. Right? Tick Tock has shown how high quality that can be frankly, right, like it's very entertaining, people go for it. The second is virtual influencers on your computer. So you know, you're synthesizing it. So I'm just actually imbibing and learning art on and, you know, applied art history. Maybe, you know, one of the things I'm thinking about

Unknown Speaker  3:13  
what medium of art in particular, are you paying attention to?

Unknown Speaker  3:17  
digital? So you know, what, what I think a lot about is on a, a cryptocurrency is a prelude to a crypto country. And when you think about France, right, the first thing you think about is not their stock market. What do you think about when you think about France? The Louvre, right, the Eiffel Tower? Fine, fine, fine. Yeah. Right. Yeah. I guess no, that's also important, right? I'm

Unknown Speaker  3:43  
not as sophisticated as you are.

Unknown Speaker  3:45  
No, no, but, you know, you know, you're talking about is the food and the culture, right. Like, you know, that, you know, when it's actually it's relatively infrequent, that the first thing you think about when you think about a country, um, is their, their markets, you know, um, if that happens, you know, for example, like, if you, you know, the USA, certainly, capitalism would probably be one of the top five things that people would, would come up with, when they're talking about what the US is, you know, New York City and Wall Street and so on. Right. So it's identified with that, like, capitalism as part of the culture, there's nothing wrong with that. Um, but, you know, when you talk about culture, and a lot of it is art, a lot of its aesthetics. And this is something that crypto and Bitcoin is started to do more of, you know, like, there's certainly, you know, obviously the logo. There's, there's folks who have memes, you know, like, like moon and lunar, right, like, hodl. You know, those, those are like, kind of what I call pigeon art. You know, it's not intentional. It's not funded. It's not like meant to be inspirational. For example, there's huge, huge holes. We don't have a Bitcoin anthem. Right? Um, we don't actually have songs. We don't have, we have, we have some documentaries and so on. We don't have like movies. We don't have aren't yet and and so yet, you know, on the other hand, if you think about a huge part of what boosts cryptocurrency it is, um, you know, like the community, right? And so again, we have the pigeon version of that we have Twitter, obviously. And we have Reddit and we have, you know, blog posts and, and whatnot, you have your sort of text based evangelism. But one thought is that text only works for a subset of people. And then to reach like a larger audience, it is going to have to be video, it's going to have to be songs, it's going to have to be images, it's going to have to be things that are maybe more feeling than just pure thinking. Um, this is actually also related to something. You know, I've been tweeting about, which is, we haven't made the emotional case for technology. You know, we have we have only talked about the the cost and benefits from a very left brain analytical perspective, you know, it's 10 x faster, it's an X cheaper it, you know, it's more efficient, or what have you. We haven't said something like, hey, if you are blocking self driving cars, you're killing 30,000 people a year from from car accidents. You know, we haven't made that moral case. We haven't said, Hey, the FDA is stopping genetic tests. And so therefore, it is literally killing people by you know, like, disabling our sensors around the Coronavirus. We haven't said, Hey, the SEC is preventing capital formation is keeping you poor because you can't invest, right? We haven't made that moral and emotional cases like this huge missing thing. And this is kind of related to that anyway, but maybe a long answer. But But something something might be interesting.

Unknown Speaker  6:34  
That's interesting, we might we might come back to that at some point when we talk more about crypto. But so the theme of this particular interview is about COVID-19. And how it changes everything. Sure, you've Of course, been in the spotlight lately, because of your impressions on COVID-19 pandemics. I remember, you know, in our conversations, you were one of the earliest lucid voices that I heard, claiming that COVID-19 was going to come to us that it was going to be big, and that it was going to disrupt the world, and even spark social unrest. And so far, you've been vindicated on every count. But I want to ask you, what do you think you got wrong in your predictions about how this would play out? And what is most surprised you in the way that the pandemic has progressed to the world?

Unknown Speaker  7:16  
Yeah, I was actually going to say, I would not call myself vindicated on every count, if I score myself, you know, Scott Alexander actually has and Brian Kaplan, they both have this really good exercise of self scoring their own predictions, both as a public accountability mechanism, and as a personal accountability mechanism, what did I get wrong? You know, because I'm, when I have a theory of the world that is disproved by events, I've learned something and then hopefully, I can update, right? Um, you know, it's just gonna signal processing, like you think about the Kalman filter, the so called innovations process, where the delta is actually feedback in and then you change the trajectory of your of your, you know, space shuttle, or what have you that's guided in this way. That's like, you know, basic control theory. So without that feedback, you don't actually change your course correction. So what do I think I got wrong? Um, I'd say the biggest thing that I got wrong was I underestimated the, um, the degree of add and irrationalism among the American public, despite actually thinking of that as a pretty high level, it's actually, you know, off the charts in an unquantifiable way. Okay. And, you know, basically, with COVID, the country went from is almost like the classic Gartner hype cycle, right? ignore it. Oh, my God, it's the most important thing ever, then, oh, it went away for like, two weeks or three weeks when we have all these protests and what have you, right? Um, huge crowds, obviously. And, you know, then suddenly, it surges back, or Oh, my God, you know, and, you know, this may be something that everybody has different root causes of it, I frankly, think if you take all the accusations on one side, and all the acquisitions on the other side, and you put them together, they're both right masks, you know, if you don't wear a mask, probably going to spread it, you know, you're more likely to get it on, if you're in a huge crowd, probably more likely to get it. These are that's just like basic biology one to one, the, you know, the virus doesn't care how righteous ones causes, you know, um, and so, you know, essentially what I got wrong was I thought that the level of energy around stay home stay safe. You remember what the guy was on a beach, and he had like a grim reaper, you know, thing like that? Yeah. So, so like, that was there and that was being celebrated by all these people on Twitter, literally, like two weeks before these gigantic closely packed protests, right. And, you know, you could argue maybe that already Hey, this is like, like higher in the priority stack. You know, like, one can argue about that, like, oh, maybe this is more Live or what have you, okay, but you can't argue that it's not going to spread the virus, right. Um, and so, so the level of kind of irrationalism has been much higher than I expected. And of course, this is this is very much a universal thing. It's actually insane that you, you can't discuss a biological phenomenon. Without it becoming partisan in America. Right? What happened very quickly was people rather than fighting the virus were much more comfortable fighting each other. And so it mapped on to this stupid right left template that we have for basically everything, you know, for example, remdesivir is, you know, champion by the left and hydroxychloroquine by the right, can you imagine, like, a, you know, like, some sort of treatment of a normal flu, where, like, amoxicillin or whatever is considered right wing, and, you know, like, ropa, testin is left wing or whatever, like, That's insane. You know, it's, it's, it's something where that's, that shouldn't just be like, like a scientific process, right? You shouldn't have these, these lunatics, you know, they can get partisan, right. Um, but, but that's, that's what we've got. So so that's what I got.

Unknown Speaker  11:10  
It's interesting, because I think what COVID has shown us is that if COVID were more straightforward, if it were like, you know, like the Black Death, then it would be a lot easier for people to calibrate correctly to, you know, just social, new social norms that everybody follows without really thinking too much about. But it seems like COVID is all about externalities, right? Like even even a mask protects other people more than it protects you. Right? Yeah.

Unknown Speaker  11:36  
Sort of social behavior going, especially if you're

Unknown Speaker  11:38  
young, and you're relatively in good health, right?

Unknown Speaker  11:42  
It seems like the a lot of the, at least to my perspective, a lot of the difference in behavior and performance between different countries has to do with their norms around sort of, sort of community versus individual identity.

Unknown Speaker  11:54  
Yeah, so. So that's another thing where I think COVID has affected my thinking on philosophy. I don't consider I wouldn't say I got this wrong, actually, I think I called I thought through this early enough in the thing, you know, in the whole, you know, pandemic, and I tweeted about it, we're basically, um, there's definitely a tension between the level of state power capacity that you need to fight COVID. And you know, the ideals of cryptocurrency and small little libertarianism and freedom and what have you, right? There's absolutely a tension there between antivirus and pro crypto. Um, however, you know, early on, I had this tweet, which was, you know, Ben Gurion, one of the first leaders of Israel, um, you know, he had had the same fight the war is if there is no white paper, fight the white papers, if there is no war, meaning on during World War Two, the British had put up a white paper on the disposition of Palestine, that the, you know, the proto Israelis were, you know, not happy with, and they were against the British on this issue. On their hand, they were allied with the British against Nazis. And so, you know, even though that these two goals clearly had, you know, differing things, one was basically allied with the British and one was, you know, very much against them. Um, he recognized that actually, he wanted both outcomes, which is both wanting to defeat the Nazis, and wanted to have an independent Israel. So he said, fight the, you know, fight the war is if there's no white paper, fight the white papers if there was no war, and they got both of them, right. So over time, you know, they both defeated Nazis and they got an independent state, right. Um, I'm not getting into like, I mean, there's lots of politics or whatever research, I'm just talking about that particular, you know, strategy, right. Similarly, I think, you know, fight the virus, um, you know, fight COVID is if there is no crypto fight, you know, fight for kryptos. If there's no COVID, you know, you what gets interesting is you don't want to undermine a legitimate quarantine regime, because that's not only not in your self interest that is arguably violating like the non aggression principle and so on, because you're visiting harm, potentially lethal harm on other people, right. And again, I wouldn't call myself like a narrow libertarian, but just if one is going by those principles, on the other hand, certainly COVID has been cover for this incredible roll up of power, you know, where there's lots of TSA style policies, you know, a cargo cult lockdown, where, you know, basically the US just completely wasted everything it did, trillions of dollars was incinerated. There's this totally performative TSA style cargo cult lockdown, which was a copy of Italy, which is itself a copy of China, without admitting the US couldn't admit that it was copying China. So it copied it through a proxy. Um, you know, it was this really bizarre elite discourse, where folks, you know, either thought of China as a third world country, or something, they didn't realize that actually China's in many ways, you know, like, I'm very technically sophisticated, you know, very good at execution, and especially in the physical world. If they were having trouble containing this. Well, then the US is going to have big trouble and it's The only real for people when it hit Italy and then Italy to locked in, and then the US Copy that. But the problem is when you do a copy of a copy, and I tweeted about this as well, and you're in denial about the fact that you're copying, well, the only thing that copied was the dumbest possible instruction, which is stay home stay safe, right? There's like 50 other things that, you know, Asian countries did, not just China, but like Taiwan, and others. Um, you know, and not every one of them did all of these things. But, for example, they had central quarantine. So if you had the disease, you weren't actually kept at home where you could spread it your quarantine, obviously, there was there was testing everywhere there was testing, like with thermometers, and at restaurants and on and certainly at airports, other places, you had constant check ins. They, they, you know, closed borders early on, they had, you know, in China, they had mobile imaging machines, so they could do CT scans of people's lungs, as a proxy, or as an alternative, or complement, in some cases, to genetic testing, and so on. So there's like, a whole list of things, Taiwan itself had like a 52 point plan. So it wasn't just like, stay in your room, right. Um, so the US managed to basically ignore it until it basically, you know, panicked and pooped its pants. And

Unknown Speaker  16:16  
it's literally just incinerated trillions of dollars, basically, for almost nothing, almost none of that initial bill was actually allocated towards, to my knowledge, at least, biomedicine or drugs, or vaccines or treatments or fast track, it was all just, you know, treating the thing as a financial crisis, treating it as an economic or political problem as opposed to a biological problem. And then, you know, now everybody came out of lockdown with zero plan. And so you just got the worst of all worlds, right. And again, you can look at my tweets in March. And that's kind of like, you know, I think we're going to get the worst of all worlds where we're going to get a lockdown that destroys the economy. And we're going to have the worst outbreak in the world. And that's what American leadership at all levels has delivered.

Unknown Speaker  17:00  
True. So let's turn the subject from COVID to crypto. Sure. So it's been it's been claimed by many people that COVID is going to accelerate crypto adoption. It's been six months now, roughly, that COVID has been spreading around the world. Has it been accelerating crypto adoption? And if not, what exactly is it going to take for that? For that accelerate to really take place?

Unknown Speaker  17:23  
I think it's I'm sorry, I'm not sure that, I don't know. Maybe I have a tweet or something on this. I don't think that COVID specific, it's not like an aid to be, it's more of an ad b2c. What COVID does, is COVID powered up the state everywhere, right? Like, you know, things that were previously edge cases, like, you know, surveillance, you know, house arrest of everybody, control of the economy, you know, all of these things like that. There are there are now reasons where, you know, the state basically says, Hey, we need to contact trace you, right? We need to track everybody you've ever associated with Okay, number one. Number two, we need to put you under house arrest, even if you haven't committed a crime, like you can be, you know, like basically jacked off the street. Like there's a curfew, right? Um, number three, you, you know, the, you know, imports, exports, tariffs, all of that is on the table, like any economic intervention, printed trillion dollars, tell Walmart that there's non essential goods and they can't sell it on tell a restaurant that it has to, you know, basically implement biohazard mode or shut down. Um, you know, like, it just just anything as possible, we're in the time of the unlimited government, right, seize masks, seize, you know, things, you know, on the basis of them being hoarded. We're, we're just outside the bounds of any limits on government economically, right. So, so what COVID has done is it's just unleashed the state completely. Now, here's the thing. Um, the, you know, I had this kind of, you know, dog grill or whatever, which I thought was funny, and everyone gets, you know, may get offended by it. But I do not mean any offense, but it's basically like, um, Democrats need to learn that experts are sometimes wrong. Republicans need to learn that experts are sometimes right. progressives need to learn that a state can sometimes fail. And libertarians need to learn that a state can sometimes succeed. And that, to me, like is the kind of non ideological take on last four months where every one of the sentences, you can immediately pull some incidents to mind where you know, people are either, like, mindlessly trusting experts or mindlessly dismissing them. Or they're saying, oh, like anything the government does is obviously bad, or anything the government does, we must obey without question right? Now. The point of course, is there's an enormous parameter space in the middle. And what I've increasingly realized is our actual form of government is In the US, and much of the West is no longer the constitution or, you know, like regulators even or, you know, academics, journalists, you know what our form of government is?

Unknown Speaker  20:12  
Twitter.

Unknown Speaker  20:15  
Twitter is the supreme force in western civilization. Okay? It stands above Trump and the times. Okay? Because, you know, Trump can't post something online, Twitter doesn't want it to, and neither can salzburger at the times, right? within the span of basically 10 days in different ways. Twitter edited both Trump and the times, right. And so Twitter is now actually the supreme force in western civilization. But it wasn't set up to be a government, you want an E voting, we got it. Right. Like, basically a politician goes and float some proposal and count how many likes and replies it's a new, you know, phone into your, you know, your senator or whatever, they just count, you know, the flames or what have you. It's extremely influential on their thinking, you know, and, you know, I sort of sarcastically remarked, you know, people say that Western civilization has no Telos, you know, no sense of purpose or direction. I'm like, Are you kidding? The purpose of every single journalist, academic influencer politician, Western solutions very clear, which is to gain more likes and followers on Twitter, right. So like, once you actually phrase it like that, um, it's actually kind of true, that all of them value that they don't necessarily share common.

Unknown Speaker  21:30  
Like, like, ideological goals. They may not believe in the flag or something like that. But they believe in followers. And I mean, I'm being sarcastic. But it's also unfortunately, true, right. And the problem, of course, is that status and attention are fundamentally zero sum games. And this is a deeper concept. And we'll go into this for a second. But in a, you know, if everybody has a Nobel Prize, nobody has a Nobel Prize, right? The entire point of the Nobel Prize is, you know, out of 7 billion people, you're picking a few people for this honor, right? The more it's expanded, the less exclusive it is, the less you know of an honor it is or what have you, right? And so status is inherently zero sum in this way, right? If, um, you know, if you've got a leaderboard, and there's 10 people in the first guy's 100 votes. Now let's say everybody got 10 X number of votes. The first guy is 1000 votes, he's still number one. And so attention is still there, right? status and attention are zero sum because there are leaderboards, right? One person's gain is another person's loss. It's inherently zero sum. Now, the interesting thing about it is locally, it appears nonzero sum, because when you give somebody else an upvote, it doesn't seem to cost you anything, and it seems to increase them. So it seems to cost you zero and give them a plus one. And so locally, it seems like it doesn't cost you anything, it's positive sum, right? Because some of the two things, you had zero status, you still have zero, this guy had zero status. Now he has plus one seems positive sum. But globally, it's zero sum, since your gain is their loss and vice versa, right? It's very deep, actually. And when it comes to is because there's a renormalization, there's everything is being divided by a divisor. And by you giving that even though you don't think you're giving yourself a negative you actually are because your status is decreasing by like a certain amount relative to that other one, it's like a like a, whenever you link to a site and don't do nofollow, you're actually putting that site above you in search rankings, for example, typically, right? At least according to the original PageRank. Now, with capitalism, though, it's the opposite. It appears locally zero sum, because you give somebody five bucks, and you're a minus five, and they're a plus five, right? So it seems that that sums to zero. However, globally, it's nonzero sum, because if everybody has a cell phone, then, you know, it's actually better that everybody has a cell phone, it's actually wealth increasing, there's a network effect and so on, right? It's not like, you know, the Nobel Prize, or if everybody's a Nobel Prize, nobody has one, right? Everybody's cell phone, cell phones are more valuable, right? And other goods are like that, as well, you know, so. So what's, what's the difference here? Well, when you gave that person five bucks, something floated the other way, they gave you a Coca Cola, or they gave you you know, a piece of paper or Notepad or whatever it is, right? They gave you something of value. So both of you actually ended up with more of what you want. And this is the whole coincidence of one's kind of thing, right? So the fundamental issue, then backing it up, is that leaders in western civilization have come to play this incredible zero sum game of Twitter, right, which is our actual government, and wasn't set up to be a government. No, Twitter was set up to tweet your breakfast, right? Twitter was not set up to think about checks and balances. It certainly doesn't really have a police force beyond the most arbitrary flagging of posts, which people make fun of, by the way, if you if you Google, like five g frequency or whatever, you know, you've seen these things, right? You can tweet things and Twitter will put a warning underneath and it's just like a dumb regex it's looking for words in your tweet to like warn you of it right. Um, so Twitter wasn't set up to be a government and look, I'm not attacking jack. You know, this. This thing started his tweeting, you know, one's breakfast and it grew to something that literally heads of state are angry about whether they can or cannot write to Twitter's database, you know, this is also a deep point. By the Like, you know, people talk about Oh, the Presidents the most powerful man in the world. No. President isn't even the most powerful man in his own country. Because I'm like Dorsey and Zuck can control whether or not he's able to post online, right? Like, that's a totally new thing, right? The same same with, you know, the press, like the press is no longer the primary thing, because dorsia can, you know, up or down prioritize it right. Um, so I remind me where my initial thought was, because I got into Twitter and leadership. First Verizon,

Unknown Speaker  25:29  
yeah, we were originally talking about COVID accelerating crypto adoption. And I think we ended up okay, and a few, a few functions, here's

Unknown Speaker  25:37  
what's happened. COVID has massively powered up the state. In some countries, um, that state has, for the most part, taken that power and used it responsibly. Um, you know, so for example, you know, Singapore has privacy, preserving, contact tracing, and has managed to mostly get their epidemic under control. Um, I haven't looked at the last few weeks in New Zealand. So, you know, like, my news might be a little bit out of date on this, but New Zealand did for a while get to zero new cases, then they had large protests and so on, which may have brought it back, I haven't actually looked at, you know, last few days, but on New Zealand for at least a time, did have a competent government that use their powers for good, right. And this is the thing that libertarians often, you know, that they're ideologically against it, you know, because they genuinely, they're correct in saying the state can fail, but a state can also succeed. And it's, there's certain things that are hard to do unless you do them centralized. So, it's not the case that every government failed, it is the case every government powered up. And it is the case that every government powered up and gained lots of powers over the economy, right, to basically just pause transactions and so on. Bruna McKay's, um, you know, had a good essay on this, where he basically said, you know, look, the economy is now a program. And we all learn something that we didn't know before, the hierarchy and model of it all being free exchange and so on, is one model. But there's another model where this is a program that you can just hit, pause on and halted, right. And there's it, there's a depth to that in the sense of if you're PayPal, if you're stripe, if you're the Federal Reserve, if you're looking at a blockchain, you know, an economy is no longer an abstract thing, it's a data structure, right is a record of all the transactions that have ever happened along with metadata on each edge, in the same way that in the late 90s, you know, people talked about six degrees of separation as a sort of abstract concept. And then we had the social network, which is a very concrete thing that you can compute on, you don't just say, six degrees of separation, I can give you like a time series of the degree of every node and all these analytics, right? It's a data structure, right? So now, the economy is a data structure. Now people realize it can be paused, it can be edited, it can be analyzed. So that means enormous amounts of temptation and probably result of state control over the economy. And that is what stimulates crypto in the medium to long term.

Unknown Speaker  27:58  
So I think much of the crypto ification of the world thesis assumes that technology is this kind of neutral, permissionless substrate that anybody can Co Op. Right? You know, they can they can write whatever code they want to run on whatever hardware they have. But it seems like recently, we've been seeing in increasing dividing lines showing us that it's not quite so neutral of a substrate. So for example, you know, India, banning Chinese applications from the app stores, right, or Google and Google and Facebook, and forcing COVID apps from not being able to be deployed onto onto mobile, or, you know, the Chinese firewall or Russia trying to import the Chinese firewall or the EU, for that matter, trying to import their own version of a firewall. How does that affect the storyline of how crypto gains a chokehold if it if sort of, as you mentioned, states are powering up and there's particularly powering up around their control over the internet?

Unknown Speaker  28:54  
Yeah, so what I think happens is, we're in for an error, you know, it's funny, like is your December 31 to January 1, I tweeted something like a decade of disruption followed by a decade of decentralization. Right. And I think that's holding up pretty well actually, in some ways, you know, so, but an interesting point, which is, we're both decentralizing and centralizing at the same time and let me explain the virus break centralized states, any state that is incompetent, is basically going to face like, de facto independence movements. You know, for example, in the EU, um, you know, down to the individual city level, Italian cities are like banning people from entering, they're doing border control to prevent people from entering right. And, you know, the EU is like this massive, this huge new hit of the pandemic came on top of all their existing tensions over politics and immigration economics. When have you done this new force has been pushing people apart? Right. So I think, you know, the EU is not long for this world. You know, Brexit is obviously the first you know, country. You know, the the keep breaking away from the EU. But I would be very surprised if you makes it through this decade, right? It's already in some ways a dead letter. Because when the pandemic hit, their first instinct wasn't to cooperate and act as one, you know, on, like, India is actually one country, you know, it didn't, it didn't like, break up in the same way, which is interesting. India's actually, in some ways got higher state capacity and internal cohesion than Europe, or even the US nowadays, which is astonishing, by the way. Um, the So, but the point being that it's decentralizes, so it breaks into the states, but then within those states, they centralize, and they gain more power, right? So it's simultaneously decentralization of breaking down. And then you have like more authority within that, that locality, then you did globally, right. Um, and arguably, that's a better outcome where rather than some person having like, you know, kind of wishy washy bureaucratic control over, you know, a huge group of people, you have an, you know, CEOs who actually have control, and therefore, they have not just responsibility but power to accomplish things. And at least in theory, you can exit from one to another right? Now, in practice, you can't right now, because of COVID. That is put all these immigration restrictions on people. But I think that's another thing, which is interesting, all of my stuff on exit, you know, and so on from 2013. Right, um, and exit as a fundamental human right, I think people are going to value that way more, once it's taken away from them. Right, like the fact that you cannot leave, you know, that you're in lockdown in your home, or that it's hard to get out of the country is, you know, or, you know, UK people are also feeling this with Brexit, you know, oh, the, you know, my ability to leave is being is being impeded. It's not even so much that you want to use it right, then it's that that was taken away from you now. It's like, Oh, you know, my freedom to travel is gone. Right. Right. So that's another aspect in which, you know, this, this decentralization and centralization combined, it boosts the energy for thinking about exit as a fundamental right. Now, return to your question, though, you said something about, I want to make sure I answered all

Unknown Speaker  32:07  
the question of whether, you know, the, the neutrality of technology is, Yes, okay.

Unknown Speaker  32:12  
I'll come to that point. So, so you have this decentralization, you have these states powering up, right. And as it power up, they do things like what India has just done, where they like, knock, you know, Chinese apps out and so on. Now, not every state is capable of doing that, you know, you have to be sort of like an anchor tenant, um, you know, like, like, India is an anchor tenant, and, you know, arguably like Sri Lanka, or, you know, Bangladesh, maybe could, you know, be friendly with it, right, Pakistan, probably not Nepal, maybe right. Um, China is also an anchor tenant, and Vietnam and others could be under its sort of sphere of influence, so to speak, right. Um, and, you know, so you have these anchor tenants, and they have spheres of influence, right? Um, and, you know, the USA would probably, you know, would have Canada it has the UK and it have, you know, New Zealand etc. But it doesn't have China in its sphere of influence as much anymore, right? Um, so what you get is you get, I don't know, maybe six or seven spheres of influence, roughly speaking, there's the Anglosphere right there is the visor grad right which is you know, Hungary Slovakia basically four countries in Central slash Eastern Europe you have the the the Russians and Belarus and so on kind of the you know, the the Slavs sphere, you have the Chinese on you have India, you have Japan, which is its own thing, right. And Korea is interesting, maybe that's also capable of it's got neighbor, it's got quite a competent tech ecosystem. And then, you know, like, big piece of Africa will probably be siding with China, you know, for a while because there's a lot of, you know, Chinese, you know, boots on the ground there. South America, I don't actually know as well, you know, who would be the anchor tenant there. Um, you know, maybe maybe I'll end up being the US or something, but I actually don't know as well. So you've got like, I don't know, maybe six or eight of these spheres of influence around the world. And you have you know, just like we talked about Alibaba is the Chinese Amazon, right? You will probably get a Russian Amazon and maybe a vise regret Amazon and a South American Amazon which is like Mercado Libra by Wednesday. So you know, you basically get an eight of these, you know, spheres and you have different versions within each. So you actually have more choice in the sense of internet giants and one of the reasons is easier to clone right? Um, once you know that something works, you can copy Amazon's you actually copy Facebook's UX. It's it's something where those two axes have been stable for a while. So you can just clone them. Okay. So it'll probably work within these things. You have these practice spheres and then between

Unknown Speaker  34:52  
the internet is like the ocean.

Unknown Speaker  34:55  
Okay, so you know what the Law of the Sea is

Unknown Speaker  34:58  
international law

Unknown Speaker  35:00  
Law of the SCA.

Unknown Speaker  35:03  
SCA, right? Um, so the oceans have long been effectively and I shouldn't say a demilitarized zone. But they've been something where, you know, you'll have a Portuguese ship flying near France and England are heavy. So there's been need for a long time when there's this international waters kind of area, right? To have laws that govern the interactions of ships, like they get in a fight, or they crash into each other. And they're 30 miles outside of, you know, or more than 30 miles outside, it's like in the middle of the Atlantic. What happens, right, so the Law of the Sea is worth studying, because it governs what happens in this no man's land. Right? it governs what happens when ships go and hit. And I think that's a model that we're moving towards, we have these powerful spheres, and then in between them the interest issues. That's the internet and that's crypto. Hmm. Okay. So, blockchain is the Law of the Sea, or the law of the internet. And so, you know, folks who cannot like collapse, it's basically the place where internationalist capitalism happens, even as all these countries go nationalist socialist. And so that's what I mean, you've got both, you know, decentralization and centralization, you become these countries, right? In the same way, you have a huge push for centralization within the countries, and then there's actually cause a corresponding demand of some kind of free trade zone in between, right. And, and you can rationalize this in the following sense, which is, um, there's roughly two modalities that people will accept, right? A, we have total power, be no one has power over us. Right. And these two things are kind of the two parts of the spectrum, right? A we have total power, meaning, you know, for example, India has power over these apps, right? Like Indians will figure out what, you know, who's eavesdropping on them or whatever? It's not tik tok, right? Or, or it's a it's a technology like Bitcoin or, you know, aetherium, where it's open state, open source, open execution, totally inspectable totally transparent. And it's more like mathematics, where it's a property of the world. So nobody can deprive you or no one, no one has power over it right. Now, of course, it's an idealization, because there's still human beings who are reading and writing to the blockchain. And, and I'm aware that, you know, I don't know, maybe Russians may be more friendly to aetherium because, you know, Russia, Canadians might like it more, because you know, vitalik, right. And, and that's fine. You know, I think a theorem is actually quite neutral, in general, becomes even more neutral, because there isn't a founder around, right. So

Unknown Speaker  37:45  
at least in terms of optics, right,

Unknown Speaker  37:46  
there's a policy I we're right up on the end of time. So I think we'll, we'll end it there. But that was a fascinating note to end on. Anything you'd like people to do to follow you or to keep up with your your stuff? Well

Unknown Speaker  37:58  
follow at Balaji sb a la Jay is at Twitter. And, you know, if I launch something new, I'll tweet up.

Unknown Speaker  38:06  
Excellent. Awesome. Well, thanks for joining me for this conversation. It was fun. Cool.

Transcribed by https://otter.ai
